Generating Aspect - oriented Multi - Document Summarization with Event - aspect model In this paper , we propose a novel approach to automatic generation of aspect - oriented summaries from multiple documents .
We first develop an event - aspect LDA model to cluster sentences into aspects .
We then use extended LexRank algorithm to rank the sentences in each cluster .
We use Integer Linear Programming for sentence selection .
Key features of our method include automatic grouping of semantically related sentences and sentence ranking based on extension of random walk model .
Also , we implement a new sentence compression algorithm which use dependency tree instead of parser tree .
We compare our method with four baseline methods .
Quantitative evaluation based on Rouge metric demonstrates the effectiveness and advantages of our method .
1 Introduction In recent years , there has been much interest in the task of multi - document summarization .
In this paper , we study the task of automatically generating aspect - oriented summaries from multiple documents .
The goal of aspect - oriented summarization is to present the most important content to the user in a condensed form and a well - organized structure to satisfy the user ' s needs .
A summary should follow a readable structure and cover all the aspects users are interested in .
For example , a summary about natural disasters should include aspects about what happened , when / where it happened , reasons , damages , rescue efforts , etc .
and these aspects may be scattered in multiple articles written by different news agencies .
Our goal is to automatically collect aspects and construct summaries from multiple documents .
Aspect - oriented summarization can be used in many scenarios .
First of all , it can be used to generate Wikipedia - like summary articles , especially used to generate introduction sections that summarizes the subject of articles before the table of contents and other elaborate sections .
Second , opinionated text often contains multiple viewpoints about an issue generated by different people .
Summarizing these multiple opinions can help people easily digest them .
Furthermore , combined with search engines and question & answering systems , we can better organize the summary content based on aspects to improve user experience .
Despite its usefulness , the problem of modeling domain specific aspects for multi - document summarization has not been well studied .
The most relevant work is by ( Haghighi and Vanderwende , 2009 ) on exploring content models for multi - document summarization .
They proposed a HIERSUM model for finding the subtopics or aspects which are combined by using KL - divergence criterion for selecting relevant sentences .
They introduced a general content distribution and several specific content distributions to discover the topic and aspects for a single document collection .
However , the aspects may be shared not only across documents in a single collection , but also across documents in different topic - related collections .
Their model is conceptually inadequate for simultaneously summarizing multiple topic - related document collections .
Furthermore , their sentence selection method based on KL - divergence cannot prevent redundancy across different aspects .
In this paper , we study how to overcome these limitations .
We hypothesize that comparatively summarizing topics across similar collections can improve the effectiveness of aspect - oriented multi - document summarization .
We propose a novel extraction - based approach which consists of four main steps listed below : Sentence Clustering : Our goal in this step is to automatically identify the different aspects and cluster sentences into aspects ( See Section 2 ).
We substantially extend the entity - aspect model in ( Li et al ., 2010 ) for generating general sentence clusters .
Sentence Ranking : In this step , we use an extension of LexRank algorithm proposed by ( Paul et al ., 2010 ) to score representative sentences in each cluster ( See Section 3 ).
Sentence Compression : In this step , we aim to improve the linguistic quality of the summaries by simplifying the sentence expressions .
We prune sentences using grammatical relations defined on dependency trees for recognizing important clauses and removing redundant subtrees ( See Section 4 ).
Sentence Selection : Finally , we select one compressed version of the sentences from each aspect cluster .
We use Integer Linear Programming ( ILP ) algorithm , which optimizes a global objective function , for sentence selection ( McDonald , 2007 ; Gillick and Favre , 2009 ; Sauper and Barzilay , 2009 ) ( See Section 5 ).
We evaluate our method using TAC2010 Guided Summarization task data sets ( Section 6 ).
Our evaluation shows that our method obtains better ROUGE recall score compared with four baseline methods , and it also achieve reasonably high - quality aspect clusters in terms of purity .
2 Sentence Clustering In this step , our goal is to discover event aspects contained in a document set and cluster sentences into aspects .
Here we substantially extend the entity - aspect model in Li et al .
( 2010 ) and refer to it as event - aspect model .
The main difference between our event - aspect model and entity - aspect model is that we introduce an additional layer of event topics and the separation of general and specific aspects .
http :// www . nist . gov / tac / 2010 / Summarization / Our extension is based upon the following observations .
For example , specific events like " Columbine Massacre " and " Malaysia Resort Abduction " can be related to the " Attack " topic .
Each event consists of multiple articles written by different news agencies .
Interesting aspects may include " what happened , when , where , perpetrators , reasons , who affected , damages and countermea - sures ," etc .
We compared the " Columbine Massacre " and " Malaysia Resort Abduction " data sets and found 5 different kinds of words in the text : ( 1 ) stop words that occur frequently in any document collection ; ( 2 ) general content words describing " damages " or " countermeasures " aspect of attacks ; ( 3 ) specific content words describing " what happened ", " who affected " or " where " aspect of the concrete event ; ( 4 ) background words describing the general topic of " Attack "; ( 5 ) words that are local to a single document and do not appear across different documents .
Table 1 shows four sentences related to two major aspects .
We found that the entity - aspect model does not have enough capacity to cluster sentences into aspects ( See Section 6 ).
So we introduce additional layer to improve the effectiveness of sentence clustering .
We also found that their one aspect per sentence assumption is not very strong in this scenario .
Although a sentence may belong to a single general aspect , it still contains multiple specific aspect words like second sentence in Table 1 .
Therefore , We assume that each sentence belongs to both a general aspect and a specific aspect .
2 . 1 Event - Aspect Model Stop words can be ignored by LDA model because they can be easily identified using a standard stop word list .
Suppose that for a given event topic , there are in total C specific events for which we need to simultaneously generate summaries .
We can assume four kinds of unigram language models ( i . e .
multinomial word distributions ).
For each event topic , there is a background model ffB that generates words commonly used in all documents , and there are general aspect models çfô < l ( 1 < ga < AG ), where AG is the number of general aspects .
For each specific event in a topic , there are AS specific aspect http :// www . nist . gov / tac / 2010 / Summarization / Guided - Summ . 2010 . guidelines .
html countermeasures Police / GA are / S close / B to / S identifying / GA someone / B responsible / GA for / S the / S attack / B .
Investigators / GA do / S not / S know / B how / S many / S suspects / SA they / S are / S looking / B for / S , but / S reported / B progress / B toward / S identifying / GA one / S of / S the / S bombers / SA .
what happened , when , where During / S the / S morning / SA rush / D hour / D on / S July / SA 7 / SA terrorists / B exploded / SA bombs / SA on / S three / D London / SA subway / D trains / SA and / S a / S double - decker / D bus / SA .
Four / D coordinated / B bombings / SA struck / B central / B London / SA on / SA July / SA 7 / SA , three / D in / S subway / D cars / SA and / S one / D on / S a / S bus / SA .
Table 1 : Four sentences on " COUNTERMEASURES " and " What , When , Where " aspects from the " Attack " topic .
S : stop word .
B : background word .
GA : general aspect word .
SA : specific aspect word .
D : document word .
models ffsa ( 1 < sa < AS ), where AS is the number of specific aspects , and also there are D document models ffd ( 1 < d < D ), where D is the number of documents in this collection .
We assume that these word distributions have a uniform Dirich - let prior with parameter ß .
We introduce a level distribution a that controls whether we choose a word from fga or ffsa .
a is sampled from Beta ( 50 , ö1 ) distribution .
We also introduce an aspect distribution 9 that controls how often a general or a specific aspect occurs in the collection , where 9 is sampled from another Dirichlet prior with parameter a .
There is also a multinomial distribution n that controls in each sentence how often we encounter a background word , a document word , or an aspect word .
n has a Dirichlet prior with parameter 7 .
Let Sd denote the number of sentences in document d , Nd , s denote the number of words ( after stop word removal ) in sentence s of document d , and wd , s , n denote the n ' th word in this sentence .
We introduce hidden variables zd " and zdas to indicate that a sentence s of document d belongs to which general or specific aspects .
We introduce hidden variables yd , s , n for each word to indicate whether a word is generated from the background model , the document model , or the aspect model .
We also introduce hidden variables 1d ) S > n to indicate whether the n ' th word in sentence s of document d is generated from the general aspect model .
Figure 1 describes the process of generating the whole document collection .
The plate notation of the model is shown in Figure 2 .
Note that the values of ö0 , ö1 , a1 , a2 , ß and 7 are fixed .
The number of general and specific aspects AG and AS are also empirically set .
Given a document collection , i . e .
the set of all Wd , s , n , our goal is to find the most likely assignment of zd ", zdas , yd , s , n and 1d ) S > n that maximizes distribution p ( z , y , l \ w ; a , ß , 7 , 5 ), where z , y , l and w represent the set of all z , y , I and w variables , respectively .
With the assignment , sentences are naturally clustered into aspects , and words are labeled as either a background word , a document word , a general aspect word or a specific aspect word .
Inference can be done with Gibbs sampling , which is commonly used in LDA models ( Griffiths and Steyvers , 2004 ).
In our experiments , we set a1 = 5 , a2 = 3 , ß = 0 . 01 , 7 = 20 , 51 = 10 and 52 = 10 .
We run 100 burn - in iterations through all documents in a collection to stabilize the distribution of z and y before collecting samples .
We take 10 samples with a gap of 10 iterations between two samples , and average over these 10 samples to get the estimation for the parameters .
After estimating all the distributions , we can find the values of each zd " and zdas that gives us sentences clustered into general and specific aspects .
3 Sentence Ranking In this step , we want to order the clustered sentences so that the representative sentences can be ranked higher in each aspect .
Inspired by Paul et al .
( 2010 ), we use an extended LexRank algorithm to obtain top ranked sentences .
LexRank ( Erkan and Radev , 2004 ) algorithm defines a random walk mod - 2 .
For each event topic , there is a background model ffB , and there are general aspect ga , where 1 < ga < AG 3 .
For each document collection , there are specific aspect sa , where 1 < sa < AS A . draw 1djSi „ - Binomial ( a ) d , s , n 0 Figure 1 : The document generation process .
el on top of a graph that represents sentences to be summarized as nodes and their similarities as edges .
The LexRank score of a sentence gives the expected probability that a random walk will visit that sentence in the long run .
A variant is called continuous LexRank improved LexRank by making use of the strength of the similarity links .
The continuous LexRank score can be computed using the following formula : vGadj [ u ] where L ( u ) is the LexRank value of sentence u , N is the total number of nodes in the graph , d is a damping factor for the convergence of the method , and p ( u \ v ) is the jumping probability between sentence u and its neighboring sentence v . p ( u \ v ) is defined using content similarity function sim ( u , v ) between two sentences : Figure 2 : The event - aspect model .
The major extension is to modify this jumping probability so as to favor visiting representative sentences .
More specifically , we scale sim ( u , v ) by the likelihood that the two sentences represent the same general aspect ga or specific aspect sa : where the value P ( ga \ u ) and P ( sa \ u ) can be computed by our event - aspect model .
We define sim ( u , v ) as the tf * idf weighted cosine similarity between two sentences .
We found that sentence ranking is better conducted before the compression because the pre - compressed sentences are more informative and the similarity function in LexRank can be better offwith the complete information .
4 Sentence Compression It has been shown that sentence compression can improve linguistic quality of summaries ( Zajic et al ., 2007 ; Gillick et al ., 2010 ).
Commonly used " Syntactic parse and trim " approach may produce poor compression results .
For example , given the sentence " We have friends whose children go to Columbine , the freshman said ", the procedure tries to remove the clause " the freshman said " from the parse tree by using the " SBAR " label to locate the clause , and will result in " whose children go to Columbine ", which is not adequate .
Furthermore , some important temporal modifier , numeric modifier and clausal complement need to be retained because they reflect content aspects of the summary .
Therefore , we propose the " dependency parse and trim " approach , which prunes sentences based on dependency tree representations , using English grammatical relations to recognize clauses and remove redundant structures .
Table 2 shows two examples by removing redundant auxiliary clauses .
Below is the sentence compression procedure : 1 .
Select possible subtree root nodes using grammatical relations , such as clausal complement , complementizer , or parataxis .
Decide which subtree root node can be the root of clause .
If this root contains maximum number of child nodes and the collection of all child edges include object or auxiliary relations , it is selected as the root node .
Remove redundant modifiers such as adverbial - s , relative clause modifiers and abbreviations , participials and infinitive modifiers .
Traverse the subtrees and generate all possible compression alternatives using the subtree root node , then keep the top two longest sub sentences .
Drop the sub sentences shorter than 5 words .
5 Sentence Selection After sentence pruning , we prepare for the final event summary generation process .
In this step , we select one compressed version of the sentence from each aspect cluster .
To avoid redundancy between aspects , we use Integer Linear Programming to optimize a global objective function for sentence selection .
Inspired by ( Sauper and Barzilay , 2009 ), we formulate the optimization problem based on sentence ranking information .
More specifically , we Original Compressed would like to select exactly one compressed sentence which receives the highest possible ranking score from each aspect cluster subject to a series of constraints , such as redundancy and length .
We employed lp . solver , an efficient mixed integer programming solver using the Branch - and - Bound algorithm to select sentences .
The parataxis relation is a relation between the main verb of a clause and other sentential elements , such as a sentential parenthetical , colon , or semicolon Assume that there are in total K aspects in an event topic .
For each aspect j , there are in total R ranked sentences .
The variables Sß is a binary indicator of the sentence .
That is , Sß = 1 if the sentence is included in the final summary , and Sß = 0 otherwise .
l is the ranked position of the sentence in this aspect cluster .
Objective Function Top ranked sentences are the most relevant corresponding to the related aspects which we want to include in the final summary .
Thus we try to minimize the ranks of the sentences to improve the overall responsiveness .
j = 1 i = 1 Exclusivity Constraints To prevent redundancy in each aspect , we just choose one sentence from each general or specific aspect cluster .
The constraint is formulated as follows : http :// lpsolve . sourceforge . net / 5 . 5 / Table 2 : Example compressed sentences .
Redundancy Constraints We also want to prevent redundancy across different aspects .
If sentence - similarity sim ( sjl , sjiy ) between sentence sßi and sß i is above 0 . 5 , then we drop the pair and choose one sentence ranked higher from the pair otherwise .
This constraint is formulated as follows : Length Constraints We add this constraint to ensure that the length of the final summary is limited to L words .
where lenßi is the length of Sßi .
6 Evaluation In order to systematically evaluate our method , we want to check ( 1 ) whether the whole system is effective , which means to quantitatively evaluate summary quality , and ( 2 ) whether individual components like clustering and compression algorithms are useful .
We use TAC2010 Summarization task data set for the summary content evaluation .
This data set provides 46 events .
Each event falls into a predefined event topic .
Each specific event includes an event statement and 20 relevant newswire articles which have been divided into 2 sets : Document Set A and Document Set B .
Each document set has 10 documents , and all the documents in Set A chronologically precede the documents in Set B .
We just use document Set A for our task .
Assessors wrote model summaries for each event , so we can compare our automatic generated summaries with the model summaries .
We combine topic related data sets together , then these data sets simultaneously annotated by our Event - aspect model .
After labeling process , we run sentence ranking , compression and selection module to get final aspect - oriented summarizations .
6 . 2 Quality of summary We use the ROUGE ( Lin and Hovy , 2003 ) metric for measuring the summarization system performance .
Ideally , a summarization criterion should be more recall oriented .
So the average recall of ROUGE - 1 , ROUGE - 2 , ROUGE - SU4 , ROUGE - W - 1 . 2 and ROUGE - L were computed by running ROUGE - 1 . 5 . 5 with stemming but no removal of stop words .
We compare our method with the following four baseline methods .
Baseline 1 In this baseline , we try to compare different sentence clustering algorithms in the multi - document summarization scenario .
First , we use CLUTO to do K - means clustering .
Then we try entity - aspect model proposed by Li et al .
( 2010 ) to do sentence clustering .
Entity - aspect model is similar with " HI - ERSUM " content model proposed by Haghighi and Vanderwende ( 2009 ).
We use the same ranking , compression , and selection components to generate aspect - oriented summaries for comparison .
Baseline 2 In this baseline , we compare our method with traditional ranking and selection summary generation framework ( Erkan and Radev , 2004 ; Nenkova and Vanderwende , 2005 ) to show that our sentence clustering component is necessary in aspect - oriented summarization system .
Also we want check whether sentence ranking combined with greedy based sentence selection can prevent redundancy effectively .
We follow LexRank based sentence ranking combined with greedy sentence selection methods .
We implement two greedy algorithms ( Zhang et al ., 2008 ; Paul et al ., 2010 ).
One is to select the top ranked sentence simultaneously by removing 10 redundant neighbor sentences from the sentence similarity graph if the summary length is less then 100 words .
This is repeated until the graph cannot be partitioned .
The similarity graph building threshold is 0 . 3 , damping factor is 0 . 2 and error tolerance for Power Method in LexRank is 0 . 1 .
The other is to select top ranked sentences as long as the redundancy score ( similarity ) between a candidate sentence and current summary is under 0 .
This is repeated until the summary reaches a 100 word length limit .
http :// glaros . dtc . umn . edu / gkhome / cluto / cluto / overview Baseline 3 In this baseline , we compare our ILP based sentence selection with KL - divergence based sentence selection .
The KL - divergence formula we use is below , where P ( S ) is the empirical unigram distribution of the candidate summary S , and Q ( D ) is the unigram distribution of document collection D . We only replaced our selection method with the KL - divergence selection method .
Other parts are the same .
After ranking sentences for each aspect , we add the sentence with the highest ranking score from each aspect sentence cluster as long as the KL - divergence between candidate and current summary does not decrease .
This is repeated until the summary reaches a 100 word length limit .
To our knowledge , this is the first work to directly compare Integer Linear Programming based sentence selection with KL - divergence based sentence selection in summarization generation framework .
Baseline 4 In this baseline , we directly compare our method with " HIERSUM " proposed by ( Haghighi and Van - derwende , 2009 ).
As in Baseline 1 , we use entity - aspect model to approximate " HIERSUM " model .
We replace unigram distribution of P ( w ) in KL - divergence with learned distribution estimated by " HIERSUM " model .
The KL - divergence based greedy sentence selection algorithm is similar to Baseline 3 .
For fair comparison , Baselines 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 use the same sentence compression algorithm and have the summary length no more then 100 words .
In Table 3 , we show the average ROUGE recall of 46 summaries generated by our method and four baseline methods .
We can see that our method gives better Rouge recall measures then the four baseline methods .
For BL - 1 , we can see that LDA - based sentence clustering is better then k - means .
For BL - 2 , we can see that traditional ranking plus greedy selection summary generation framework is not suitable for the aspect - oriented summarization task .
More specifically , greedy - based sentence selection can not prevent redundancy effectively .
BL - 3 evaluation results showed that ILP - based sentence selection is better then KL - divergence selection in terms of preventing redundancy across different aspects .
The measurement performance between BL - 3 and BL - 4 is close .
They use the same KL - divergence based sentence selection , but topic model they use are different , and also BL - 3 has a sentence ranking process .
The Rouge recall of our method is better than BL - 4 .
It is expected because our event - aspect model can better find the aspects and also prove that our LexRank based sentence ranking combined with ILP - based sentence selection can prevent redundancy .
Due to TAC2010 summarization community just compute ROUGE - 2 and ROUGE - SU4 metrics for participants , our ROUGE - 2 metric ranked 11 out of 23 , ROUGE - SU4 metric ranked 12 out of 23 .
They use MEAD as their baseline approach .
The ROUGE - 2 score of our approach achieve 0 . 06508 higher than MEAD ' s 0 . 05929 .
The ROUGE - SU4 score of our approach achieve 0 . 10146 higher than MEAD ' s 0 . 09112 .
Many systems that get higher performances leverage domain knowledge bases like Wikipedia or training data , but we didn ' t .
The advantage of our method is that we generate summaries with totally unsupervised framework and this approach is domain adaptive .
6 . 3 Quality of aspect - oriented sentence clusters To judge the quality of the aspect - oriented sentence clusters , we ask the human judges to group the ground truth sentences based on the aspect related - ness in each event topic .
We then compute the purity of the automatically generated clusters against the human judged clusters .
The results are shown in Table 4 .
In our experiments , we set the number of general aspect clusters AG is 5 and specific aspect clusters AS is 3 .
We can see from Table 4 that our generated aspect clusters can achieve reasonably good performance .
http :// www . summarization . com / mead / Table 4 : The true numbers of aspects as judged by the human annotator ( A ), and the purity of the clusters .
6 . 4 Quality of sentence compression To judge the quality of the dependency tree based sentence compression algorithm , we ask the human judges to choose 20 sentences from each event topic then score them .
The judges follow 3 - point scale to score each compressed sentence : 1 means poor , 2 means barely acceptable , and 3 means good .
We then compute the average scores .
The results are shown in Table 5 .
To evaluate the effectiveness of sentence compression component , we conduct the system without sentence compression component , then compare it with our system .
In Table 3 , we can see that sentence compression can improve the system performance .
7 Related Work Our event - aspect model is related to a number of previous extensions of LDA models .
( 2007 ) proposed to introduce a background topic and document - specific topics .
Our background and document language models are similar to theirs .
However , they still treat documents as bags of words rather then sets of sentences as in our models .
Titov and McDonald ( 2008 ) exploited the idea that a short paragraph within a document is likely to be about the same aspect .
The way we separate words into stop words , background words , document words and aspect words bears similarity to that used in ( Daume III and Marcu , 2006 ; Haghighi and Van - derwende , 2009 ).
Paul and Girju ( 2010 ) proposed a topic - aspect model for simultaneously finding topics and aspects .
The most related extension is entity - aspect model proposed by Li et al .
The main difference between event - aspect model and entity - aspect model is our model further consider aspect granularity and add a layer to model topic - related events .
Filippova and Strube ( 2008 ) proposed a dependency tree based sentence compression algorithm .
Their approach need a large corpus to build language model for compression , whereas we prune dependency tree using grammatical rules .
Paul et al .
( 2010 ) proposed to modify LexRank algorithm using their topic - aspect model .
But their task is to summarize contrastive viewpoints in opinionated text .
Furthermore , they use a simple greedy approach for constructing summary .
McDonald ( 2007 ) proposed to use Integer Linear Programming framework in multi - document summarization .
And Sauper and Barzilay ( 2009 ) use integer linear programming framework to automatically generate Wikipedia articles .
There is a fundamental difference between their method and ours .
They used trained perceptron algorithm for ranking excerpts , whereas we give an extended LexRank with integer linear programming to optimize sentence selection for our aspect - oriented multi - document summarization .
Table 3 : ROUGE evaluation results on TAC2010 Summarization data sets Table 5 : The average score of each event topic .
8 Conclusions and Future Work In this paper , we study the task of automatically generating aspect - oriented summary from multiple documents .
We proposed an event - aspect model that can automatically cluster sentences into aspects .
We then use an extension of the LexRank algorithm to rank sentences .
We took advantage of the output generated by the event - aspect model to modify jumping probabilities so as to favor visiting representative sentence .
We also proposed dependency tree compression algorithm to prune sentence for improving linguistic quality of the summaries .
Finally we use Integer Linear Programming Framework to select aspect relevant sentences .
We conducted quantitative evaluation using standard test data sets .
We found that our method gave overall better ROUGE scores than four baseline methods , and the new sentence clustering and compression algorithm are robust .
There are a number of directions we plan to pursue in the future in order to improve our method .
First , we can possibly apply more linguistic knowledge to improve the quality of sentence compression .
Currently the sentence compression algorithm may generate meaningless subtrees .
It is relatively hard to decide which clause is redundant in terms of summarization .
Second , we may explore more domain knowledge to improve the quality of aspect - oriented summaries .
For example , we know that the " who - affected " aspect is related to person , and " when , where " are related to Time and Location .
we can import Name Entity Recognition to annotate these phrases and then help locate relevant sentences .
Third , we want to extend our event - aspect model to simultaneously find topics and aspects .
Acknowledgments This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China ( NSFC No .
60773088 ), the National High - tech R & D Program of China ( 863 Program No .
2009AA04Z106 ), and the Key Program of Basic Research of Shanghai Municipal S & T Commission ( No .
