Multi - Granular Aspect Aggregation in Aspect - Based Sentiment Analysis Aspect - based sentiment analysis estimates the sentiment expressed for each particular aspect ( e . g ., battery , screen ) of an entity ( e . g ., smartphone ).
Different words or phrases , however , may be used to refer to the same aspect , and similar aspects may need to be aggregated at coarser or finer granularities to fit the available space or satisfy user preferences .
We introduce the problem of aspect aggregation at multiple granularities .
We decompose it in two processing phases , to allow previous work on term similarity and hierarchical clustering to be reused .
We show that the second phase , where aspects are clustered , is almost a solved problem , whereas further research is needed in the first phase , where semantic similarity measures are employed .
We also introduce a novel sense pruning mechanism for WordNet - based similarity measures , which improves their performance in the first phase .
Finally , we provide publicly available benchmark datasets .
1 Introduction Given a set of texts discussing a particular entity ( e . g ., reviews of a laptop ), aspect - based sentiment analysis ( ABSA ) attempts to identify the most prominent ( e . g ., frequently discussed ) aspects of the entity ( e . g ., battery , screen ) and the average sentiment ( e . g ., 1 to 5 stars ) for each aspect or group of aspects , as in Fig .
Most ABSA systems perform all or some of the following ( Liu , 2012 ): subjectivity detection to retain only sentences ( or other spans ) expressing subjective opinions ; aspect extraction to extract ( and possibly rank ) terms corresponding to aspects ( e . g ., ' battery '); aspect aggregation to group aspect terms that are near - synonyms ( e . g ., ' price ', ' cost ') or to obtain aspects at a coarser granularity ( e . g ., ' chicken ',' steak ', and ' fish ' may be replaced by ' food ' in restaurant reviews ); and aspect sentiment score estimation to estimate the average sentiment for each aspect or group of aspects .
In this paper , we focus on aspect aggregation , the least studied stage of the four .
Aspect aggregation is needed to avoid reporting separate sentiment scores for aspect terms that are very similar .
In Fig .
1 , for example , showing separate lines for ' money ', ' price ', and ' cost ' would be confusing .
The extent to which aspect terms should be aggregated , however , also depends on the available space and user preferences .
On devices with smaller screens , it may be desirable to aggregate aspect terms that are similar , though not necessarily near - synonyms ( e . g ., ' design ', ' color ', ' feeling ') to show fewer lines ( Fig .
1 ), but finer aspects may be preferable on larger screens .
Users may also wish to adjust the granularity of aspects , e . g ., by stretching or narrowing the height of Fig .
1 on a smartphone to view more or fewer lines .
Hence , aspect aggregation should be able to produce groups of aspect terms for multiple granularities .
We assume that the aggregated aspects are displayed as lists of terms , as in Fig .
We make no effort to order ( e . g ., by frequency ) the terms in each list , nor do we attempt to produce a single ( more general ) term to describe each aggregated aspect , leaving such tasks for future work .
ABSA systems usually group synonymous ( or near - synonymous ) aspect terms ( Liu , 2012 ).
Ag - Figure 1 : Aspect groups and scores of an entity .
gregating only synonyms ( or near - synonyms ), however , does not allow users to select the desirable aspect granularity , and ignores the hierarchical relations between aspect terms .
For example , ' pizza ' and ' steak ' are kinds of ' food ' and , hence , the three terms can be aggregated to show fewer , coarser aspects , even though they are not synonyms .
Carenini et al .
( 2005 ) used a predefined domain - specific taxonomy to hierarchically aggregate aspect terms , but taxonomies of this kind are often not available .
By contrast , we use only general - purpose taxonomies ( e . g ., WordNet ), term similarity measures based on general - purpose taxonomies or corpora , and hierarchical clustering .
We define multi - granular aspect aggregation to be the task of partitioning a given set of aspect terms ( generated by a previous aspect extraction stage ) into k non - overlapping clusters , for multiple values of k . A further constraint is that the clusters have to be consistent for different k values , meaning that if two aspect terms ti , * 2 are placed in the same cluster for k = k \, then t \ and * 2 must also be grouped together ( in the same cluster ) for every k = & 2 with & 2 < fci , i . e ., for every coarser grouping .
For example , if ' waiter ' and ' service ' are grouped together for k = 5 , they must also be grouped together for k = 4 , 3 , 2 and ( trivially ) k = 1 , to allow the user to feel that selecting a smaller number of aspect groups ( narrowing the height of Fig .
1 ) has the effect of zooming out ( without aspect terms jumping unexpectedly to other aspect groups ), and similarly for zooming in .
This requirement is satisfied by using agglomerative hierarchical clustering algorithms ( Manning and Schütze , 1999 ; Hastie et al ., 2001 ), which in our case produce term hierarchies like the ones of Fig .
By using slices ( nodes at a particular depth ) of the hierarchies that are closer to the root or the leaves , we obtain fewer or more clusters .
The vertical dotted lines of Fig .
2 illustrate two slices for k = 4 .
By contrast , flat clustering algorithms ( e . g ., fc - means ) do not satisfy the consistency constraint for different k values .
Agglomerative clustering algorithms require a measure of the distance between individuals , in our case a measure of how similar two aspect terms are , and a linkage criterion to specify which clusters should be merged to form larger ( coarser ) clusters .
To experiment with different term sim - Figure 2 : Example aspect hierarchies produced by agglomerative hierarchical clustering .
' We also require the clusters to be non - overlapping to make this zooming in and out metaphor clearer to the user .
Table 1 : An aspect term similarity matrix .
ilarity measures and linkage criteria , we decompose multi - granular aspect aggregation in two processing phases .
Phase A fills in a symmetric matrix , like the one of Table 1 , with scores showing the similarity of each pair of input aspect terms ; the matrix in effect defines the distance measure to be used by agglomerative clustering .
In Phase B , the aspect terms are grouped into k non - overlapping clusters , for varying values of k , given the matrix of Phase A and a linkage criterion ; a hierarchy like the ones of Fig .
2 is first formed via agglomerative clustering , and fewer or more clusters ( for different values of k ) are then obtained by using different slices of the hierarchy as already discussed .
Our two - phase decomposition can also accommodate non - hierarchical clustering algorithms , provided that the consistency constraint is satisfied , but we consider only agglomerative hierarchical clustering in this paper .
The decomposition in two phases has three main advantages .
Firstly , it allows reusing previous work on term similarity measures ( Zhang et al ., 2013 ), which can be used to fill in the matrix of Phase A . Secondly , the decomposition allows different linkage criteria to be experimentally compared ( in Phase B ) using the same similarity matrix ( of Phase A ), i . e ., the same distance measure .
Thirdly , the decomposition leads to high inter - annotator agreement , as we show experimentally .
By contrast , in preliminary experiments we found that asking humans to directly evaluate aspect hierarchies produced by hierarchical clustering , or to manually create gold aspect hierarchies led to poor inter - annotator agreement .
We show that existing term similarity measures perform reasonably well in Phase A , especially when combined , but there is a large scope for improvement .
We also propose a novel sense pruning method for WordNet - based similarity measures , which leads to significant improvements in Phase A .
In Phase B , we experiment with agglomerative clustering using four different linkage criteria , concluding that they all perform equally well and that Phase B is almost a solved problem when the gold similarity matrix of Phase A is used ; however , further improvements are needed in the similarity measures of Phase A to produce a sufficiently good similarity matrix .
We also make publicly available the datasets of our experiments .
Our main contributions are : ( i ) to the best of our knowledge , we are the first to consider multi - granular aspect aggregation ( not just merging near - synonyms ) in ABSA without manually crafted domain - specific ontologies ; ( ii ) we propose a two - phase decomposition that allows previous work on term similarity and hierarchical clustering to be reused and evaluated with high inter - annotator agreement ; ( iii ) we introduce a novel sense pruning mechanism that improves WordNet - based similarity measures ; ( iv ) we provide the first public datasets for multi - granular aspect aggregation ; ( v ) we show that the second phase of our decomposition is almost a solved problem , and that research should focus on the first phase .
Although we experiment with customer reviews of products and services , ABSA and the work of this paper in particular are , at least in principle , also applicable to texts expressing opinions about other kinds of entities ( e . g ., politicians , organizations ).
Section 2 below discusses related work .
Sections 3 and 4 present our work for Phase A and B , respectively .
Section 5 concludes .
2 Related work Most existing approaches to aspect aggregation aim to produce a single , flat partitioning of aspect terms into aspect groups , rather than aspect groups at multiple granularities .
The most common approaches ( Liu , 2012 ) are to aggregate only synonyms or near - synonyms , using WordNet ( Liu et al ., 2005 ), statistics from corpora ( Chen et al ., 2006 ; Bollegala et al , 2007a ; Lin and Wu , 2009 ), or semi - supervised learning ( Zhai et al ., 2010 ; Zhai et al ., 2011 ), or to cluster the aspect terms using ( latent ) topic models ( Titov and McDonald , 2008a ; Guo et al , 2009 ; Brody and Elhadad , 2010 ; lo and Oh , 2011 ).
Topic models do not perform better than other methods ( Zhai et al ., 2010 ), and their clusters may overlap .
The topic model of Titov et al .
( 2008b ) uses two granularity levels ; we consider many more ( 3 - 10 levels ).
Carenini et al .
( 2005 ) used a predefined domain - specific taxonomy and similarity measures to aggregate related terms .
( 2011 ) used a tailored version of an existing taxonomy .
By contrast , we assume no domain - specific taxonomy .
Kobayashi et al .
( 2007 ) proposed methods to extract aspect terms and relations between them , including hierarchical relations .
They extract , however , relations by looking for clues in texts ( e . g ., particular phrases ).
By contrast , we employ similarity measures and hierarchical clustering , which allows us to group similar aspect terms even when they do not cooccur in texts .
Also , in contrast to Kobayashi et al .
( 2007 ), we respect the consistency constraint discussed in Section 1 .
A similar task is taxonomy induction .
Cimi - ano and Staab ( 2005 ) automatically construct taxonomies from texts via agglomerative clustering , much as in our Phase B , but not in the context of ABSA , and without trying to learn a similarity matrix first .
They also label the hierarchy ' s concepts , a task we do not consider .
Klapaftis and Manand - har ( 2010 ) show how word sense induction can be combined with agglomerative clustering to obtain more accurate taxonomies , again not in the context of ABSA .
Our sense pruning method was influenced by their work , but is much simpler than their word sense induction .
Fountain and Lapata ( 2012 ) study unsupervised methods to induce concept taxonomies , without considering ABSA .
3 Phase A We now discuss our work for Phase A .
Recall that in this phase the input is a set of aspect terms and the goal is to fill in a matrix ( Table 1 ) with scores showing the similarity of each pair of aspect terms .
Topic models are typically also used to perform aspect extraction , apart from aspect aggregation , but simple heuristics ( e . g ., most frequent nouns ) often outperform them in aspect extraction ( Liu , 2012 ; Moghaddam and Ester , 2012 ).
3 . 1 Datasets used in Phase A We used two benchmark datasets that we had previously constructed to evaluate ABSA methods for subjectivity detection , aspect extraction , and aspect score estimation , but not aspect aggregation .
We extended them to support aspect aggregation , and we make them publicly available .
The two original datasets contain sentences from customer reviews of restaurants and laptops , respectively .
The reviews are manually split into sentences , and each sentence is manually annotated as ' subjective ' ( expressing opinion ) or ' objective ' ( not expressing opinion ).
The restaurants dataset contains 3 , 710 English sentences from the restaurant reviews of Ganu et al .
The laptops dataset contains 3 , 085 English sentences from 394 customer reviews , collected from sites that host customer reviews .
In the experiments of this paper , we use only the 3 , 057 ( out of 3 , 710 ) subjective restaurant sentences and the 2 , 631 ( out of 3 , 085 ) subjective laptop sentences .
For each subjective sentence , our datasets show the words that human annotators marked as aspect terms .
For example , in " The dessert was divine !"
the aspect term is ' dessert ', and in " Really bad waiter ."
it is ' waiter '.
Among the 3 , 057 subjective restaurant sentences , 1 , 129 contain exactly one aspect term , 829 more than one , and 1 , 099 no aspect term ; a subjective sentence may express an opinion about the restaurant ( or laptop ) being reviewed without mentioning a specific aspect ( e . g ., " Really nice restaurant !
"), which is why no aspect terms are present in some subjective sentences .
There are 558 distinct multi - word aspect terms and 431 distinct single - word aspect terms in the subjective restaurant sentences .
Among the 2 , 631 subjective sentences of the laptop reviews , 823 contain exactly one aspect term , 389 more than one , and 1 , 419 no aspect term .
There are 273 distinct multiword aspect terms and 330 distinct single - word aspect terms in the subjective laptop sentences .
From each dataset , we selected the 20 ( distinct ) aspect terms that the human annotators had annotated most frequently , taking annotation frequency to be an indicator of importance ; there are only two multi - word aspect terms (' hard drive ', ' battery life ') among the 20 most frequent ones in the laptops dataset , and none among the 20 most frequent aspect terms of the restaurants dataset .
We then formed all the 190 possible pairs of the 20 terms and constructed an empty similarity matrix ( Fig .
1 ), one for each dataset , which was given to three human judges to fill in ( 1 : strong dissimilarity , 5 : strong similarity ).
For each aspect term , all the subjective sentences mentioning the term were also provided , to help the judges understand how the terms are used in the particular domains ( e . g ., ' window ' and ' Windows ' have domain - specific meanings in laptop reviews ).
The Pearson correlation coefficient indicated high inter - annotator agreement ( 0 . 81 for restaurants , 0 . 74 for laptops ).
We also measured the absolute inter - annotator agreement a ( l \, I2 ), defined below , where h , h are lists containing the scores ( similarity matrix values ) of two judges , N is the length of each list , and vmax , vmin are the largest and smallest possible scores ( 5 and 1 ).
The absolute interannotator agreement was also high ( 0 . 90 for restaurants , 0 . 91 for laptops ).
With both measures , we compute the agreement of each judge with the averaged ( for each matrix cell ) scores of the other two judges , and we report the mean of the three agreement estimates .
Finally , we created the gold similarity matrix of each dataset by placing in each cell the average scores that the three judges had provided for that cell .
In preliminary experiments , we gave aspect terms to human judges , asking them to group any terms they considered near - synonyms .
We then asked the judges to group the aspect terms into fewer , coarser groups by grouping terms that could be viewed as direct hyponyms of the same broader term ( e . g ., ' pizza ' and ' steak ' are both kinds of ' food '), or that stood in a hyponym - hypernym relation ( e . g ., ' pizza ' and ' food ').
We used the Dice coefficient to measure inter - annotator agreement , and we obtained reasonably good agreement for near - synonyms ( 0 . 77 for restaurants , 0 . 81 for laptops ), but poor agreement for the coarser aspects ( 0 .
In other preliminary experiments , we asked human judges to rank alternative aspect hierarchies that had been produced by applying agglomerative clustering with different linkage criteria to 20 aspect terms , but we obtained very poor inter - annotator agreement ( Pearson score — 0 . 83 for restaurants and 0 for laptops ).
The datasets are available at http :// nlp . cs .
aueb . gr / s oftware . html .
The matrix is symmetric ; hence , the judges had to fill in only half of it .
The guidelines and an annotation tool that were given to the judges are available upon request .
The Pearson correlation ranges from — 1 to 1 , whereas the absolute inter - annotator agreement ranges from 0 to 1 .
3 . 2 Phase A methods We employed five term similarity measures .
The first two are WordNet - based ( Budanitsky and Hirst , 2006 ).
The next two combine WordNet with statistics from corpora .
The fifth one is a corpus - based distributional similarity measure .
The first measure is Wu and Palmer ' s ( 1994 ).
It is actually a sense similarity measure ( a term may have multiple senses ).
Given two senses s ;.,-, Si > j > of terms U , ti >, the measure is defined as follows : The third measure is Lin ' s ( 1998 ), defined as : depth ( lcs ( si where lcs { t ) is the least common sub - sumer , i . e ., the most specific common ancestor of the two senses in WordNet , and depth ( s ) is the depth of sense s in WordNet ' s hierarchy .
Most terms have multiple senses , however , and word sense disambiguation methods ( Navigli , 2009 ) are not yet robust enough .
Hence , when given two aspect terms t ;, tv , rather than particular senses of the terms , a simplistic greedy approach is to compute the similarities of all the possible pairs of senses s ;.,-, s ^ y of t ;, tv , and take the similarity of ti , ti > to be the maximum similarity of the sense pairs ( Bollegala et al ., 2007b ; Zesch and Gurevych , 2010 ).
We use this greedy approach with all the WordNet - based measures , but we also propose a sense pruning mechanism below , which improves their performance .
In all the WordNet - based measures , if a term is not in WordNet , we take its similarity to any other term to be zero .
The second measure , PATH ( sij , Si > j >), is simply the inverse of the length ( plus one ) of the shortest path connecting the senses s ;.,-, sVy in WordNet ( Zhang et al ., 2013 ).
Again , the greedy approach can be used with terms having multiple senses .
The Dice coefficient ranges from 0 to 1 .
There was a very large number of possible responses the judges could provide and , hence , it would be inappropriate to use Cohen ' s K . This never happened in the restaurants dataset .
In the laptops dataset , it only happened for ' hard drive ' and ' battery life '.
We use the nltk implementation of the first four measures ( see http : / / nltk .
org /) and our own implementation of the distributional similarity measure .
where Sij , Si > j > are senses of terms ti , ti >, lcs ( sij , Si ' ji ) is the least common subsumer of s ^, Siij > in WordNet , and ic ( s ) = — log P ( s ) is the information content of sense s ( Pedersen et al ., 2004 ), estimated from a corpus .
When the corpus is not sense - tagged , we follow the common approach of treating each occurrence of a word as an occurrence of all of its senses , when estimating ic ( s ).
We experimented with two variants of Lin ' s measure , one where the ic ( s ) scores were estimated from the Brown corpus ( Marcus et al ., 1993 ), and one where they were estimated from the ( restaurant or laptop ) reviews of our datasets .
The fourth measure is Jiang and Conrath ' s ( 1997 ), defined below .
Again , we experimented with two variants of ic ( s ), as above .
For all the above WordNet - based measures , we experimented with a sense pruning mechanism , which discards some of the senses of the aspect terms , before applying the greedy approach .
For each aspect term ti ; we consider all of its Word - Net senses Sij .
For each and each other aspect term t ^, we compute ( using PATH ) the similarity between s ^ and each sense Si > j > of fy , and we consider the relevance of s ,-,- to t ,/ to be : The relevance of s ^ to all of the N other aspect terms i ,-/ is taken to be : re .
For each aspect term t ;, we retain only its senses s ^ with the top rel ( sij ) scores , which tends to http :// www . d . umn . edu /~ tpederse / Data / README - WN - IC - 30 . txt .
We use the default counting .
We also experimented with other similarity measures when computing reZ ( sy , t ;/), instead of PATH , but there was no significant difference .
We use nltk to tokenize , remove punctuation , and stop - words .
prune senses that are very irrelevant to the particular domain ( e . g ., laptops ).
This sense pruning mechanism is novel , and we show experimentally that it improves the performance of all the WordNet - based similarity measures we examined .
We also implemented a distributional similarity measure ( Harris , 1968 ; Pado and Lap - ata , 2007 ; Cimiano et al , 2009 ; Zhang et al , 2013 ).
Following Lin and Wu ( 2009 ), for each aspect term t , we create a vector v ( t ) = ( PMI ( t , wi ),..., PMI ( t , wn )).
The vector components are the Pointwise Mutual Information scores of t and each word w ; of a corpus : We treat P ( t , Wi ) as the probability of t , Wi cooc - curring in the same sentence , and we use the ( laptop or restaurant ) reviews of our datasets as the corpus to estimate the probabilities .
The distributional similarity DS ( t , t ') of two aspect terms t , t ' is the cosine similarity of v ( t ), v ( t ').
Finally , we tried combinations of the similarity measures : AVG is the average of all five ; WN is the average of the first four , which employ Word - Net ; and WNDS is the average of WN and DS ; all the scores range in [ 0 , 1 ].
We also tried regression ( e . g ., SVR ), but there was no improvement .
3 . 3 Phase A experimental results Each similarity measure was evaluated by computing its Pearson correlation with the scores of the gold similarity matrix .
Table 2 shows the results .
Our sense pruning consistently improves all four WordNet - based measures .
It does not apply to We also experimented with Euclidean distance , a normalized PMI ( Bouma , 2009 ), and the Brown corpus , but there was no improvement .
DS , which is why the DS results are identical with and without pruning .
A paired t test indicates that the other differences ( with and without pruning ) of Table 2 are statistically significant ( p < 0 . 05 ).
We used the senses with the top five rel ( sij ) scores for each aspect term t ; during sense pruning .
We also experimented with keeping fewer senses , but the results were inferior or there was no improvement .
Lin ' s measure performed better when information content was estimated on the ( much larger , but domain - independent ) Brown corpus ( LIN @ Brown ), as opposed to using the ( domain - specific ) reviews of our datasets ( LIN @ domain ), but we observed no similar consistent pattern for JCN .
Given its simplicity , PATH performed remarkably well in the restaurants dataset ; it was the best measure ( including combinations ) without sense pruning , and the best uncombined measure with sense pruning .
It performed worse , however , compared to several other measures in the laptops dataset .
Similar comments apply to WP , which is among the top - performing uncombined measures in restaurants , both with and without sense pruning , but the worst overall measure in laptops .
DS is the best overall measure in laptops when compared to measures without sense pruning , and the third best overall when compared to measures that use sense pruning , but the worst overall in restaurants both with and without pruning .
LIN and JCN , which use both WordNet and corpus statistics , have a more balanced performance across the two datasets , but they are not top - performers in any of the two .
Combinations of similarity measures seem more stable across domains , as the results of AVG , WN , and WNDS indicate , though experiments with more domains are needed to investigate this issue .
WNDS is the best overall method with sense pruning , and among the best three methods without pruning in both datasets .
To get a better view of the performance of WNDS with sense pruning , i . e ., the best overall measure of Table 2 , we compared it to two state of the art semantic similarity systems .
First , we applied the system of Han et al .
( 2013 ), one of the best systems of the recent * Sem 2013 semantic text similarity competition , to our Phase A data .
The performance ( Pearson correlation with gold similarities ) of the same system on the widely used WordSim353 word similarity dataset ( Agirre et al ., 2009 ) is 0 . 73 , much higher than the same system ' s performance on our Phase A data ( see Table 3 ), Table 2 : Phase A results ( Pearson correlation to gold similarities ) withandwithoutsense pruning .
Table 3 : Phase A results ( Pearson correlation to gold similarities ) of WNDS with SP against semantic similarity systems and human judges .
which suggests that our data are more difficult .
We also employed the recent Word2Vec system , which computes continuous vector space representations of words from large corpora and has been reported to improve results in word similarity tasks ( Mikolov et al ., 2013 ).
We used the English Wikipedia to compute word vectors with 200 features .
The similarity between two aspect terms was taken to be the cosine similarity of their vectors .
This system performed better than Han et al .
' s with laptops , but not with restaurants .
Table 3 shows that WNDS ( with sense pruning ) performed clearly better than the system of Han et al .
Table 3 also shows the Pearson correlation of each judge ' s scores to the gold similarity scores , as an indication of the best achievable results .
Although WNDS ( with sense pruning ) performs reasonably well in both domains , there is large scope for improvement .
4 Phase B In Phase B , the aspect terms are to be grouped into k non - overlapping clusters , for varying values of k , given a Phase A similarity matrix .
We experimented with both the gold similarity matrix of Phase A and similarity matrices produced by WNDS ( with SP ), the best Phase A method .
4 . 1 Phase B methods We experimented with agglomerative clustering and four linkage criteria : single , complete , average , and Ward ( Manning and Schütze , 1999 ; Hastie et al ., 2001 ).
Let d ( t \, t2 ) be the distance of The system of Han et al .
( 2013 ) is available from http :// semanticwebarchive . cs . umbc . edu / SimService /; we use the sts similarity .
nWord2Vec is available from https :// code .
google .
com / p / word2vec /.
We used the continuous bag of words model with default parameters , the first billion characters of the English Wikipedia , and the preprocessing of http :// mattmahoney . net / dc / textdata . html .
" Recall that the Pearson correlation ranges from — 1 to 1 . two individual instances t \, t2 ; in our case , the instances are aspect terms and d ( t \, t2 ) is the inverse of the similarity of t \, t2 , defined by the Phase A similarity matrix ( gold or produced by WNDS ).
Different linkage criteria define differently the distance of two clusters D ( C \, C2 ), which affects the choice of clusters that are merged to produce coarser ( higher - level ) clusters : deCi t2ec2 Complete linkage tends to produce more compact clusters , compared to single linkage , with average linkage being in between .
Ward minimizes the total in - cluster variance ; consult Milligan ( 1980 ) for further details .
4 . 2 Phase B experimental results To evaluate the k clusters produced at each aspect granularity by the different linkage criteria , we used the Silhouette Index ( SI ) ( Rousseeuw , 1987 ), a cluster evaluation measure that considers both inter - and intra - cluster coherence .
Given a set of clusters { C \,..., each SI ( Ci ) is defined as : where aj is the mean distance from the j - th instance of Ci to the other instances in Q , and bj is the mean distance from the j - th instance of Q to the instances in the cluster nearest to Ci .
Then : We always use the correct ( gold ) distances of the instances ( terms ) when computing the SI scores .
As shown in Fig .
3 , no linkage criterion clearly outperforms the others , when the gold matrix of Phase A is used ; all four criteria perform reasonably well .
Note that the SI ranges from — 1 to We used the SciPy implementations of agglomerative clustering with the four criteria ( see http :// www .
scipy . org ), relying on maxclust to obtain the slice of the resulting hierarchy that leads to fc ( or approx .
fc ) clusters .
We used the SI implementation of Pedregosa et al .
( 2011 ); see http : / / scikit - learn .
org /.
We also experimented with the Dunn Index ( Dunn , 1974 ) and the Davies - Bouldin Index ( 1979 ), but we obtained similar results .
° 2 T T T T " T # Clusters ( a ) restaurants ( b ) laptops Figure 3 : Silhouette Index ( SI ) results for Phase B , using thegoldsimilarity matrix of Phase A . I IT J L . .
uate each clustering on a 1 - 5 scale .
We measured the absolute inter - annotator agreement , as in Section 3 . 1 , and found high agreement in all cases ( 0 . 93 and 0 . 83 for the two systems , respectively in restaurants ; 0 . 85 for both in laptops ).
Figure 5 shows the average human scores of the two systems for different granularities .
The judges considered the aspect groups always perfect or near - perfect when the gold similarity matrix of Phase A was used , but they found the aspect groups to be of rather poor quality when the similarity matrix of the best Phase A measure was used .
These results , along with those of Fig .
3 ^ 1 , show that more effort needs to be devoted to improving the similarity measures of Phase A , whereas Phase B is in effect an almost solved problem , if a good similarity matrix is available .
5 Conclusions Figure 4 : SI results for Phase B , using theWNDS ( with SP ) similarity matrix of Phase A .
1 , with higher values indicating better clustering .
Figure 4 shows that when the similarity matrix of WNDS ( with SP ) is used , the SI scores deteriorate significantly ; again , there is no clear winner among the linkage criteria , but average and Ward seem to be overall better than the others .
( a ) Restaurants ( b ) Laptops Figure 5 : Human evaluation of aspect groups .
We considered a new , more demanding form of aspect aggregation in ABSA , which aims to aggregate aspects at multiple granularities , as opposed to simply merging near - synonyms , and without assuming that manually crafted domain - specific ontologies are available .
We decomposed the problem in two processing phases , which allow previous work on term similarity and hierarchical clustering to be reused and evaluated appropriately with high inter - annotator agreement .
We showed that the second phase , where we used agglomerative clustering , is an almost solved problem , whereas further research is needed in the first phrase , where term similarity measures are employed .
We also introduced a sense pruning mechanism that significantly improves WordNet - based similarity measures , leading to a measure that outperforms state of the art similarity methods in the first phase of our decomposition .
We also made publicly available the datasets of our experiments .
In a final experiment , we showed clusterings of varying granularities ( k values ) to four human judges ( graduate CS students ).
The clusterings were produced by two systems : one that used the gold similarity matrix of Phase A and agglomerative clustering with average linkage in Phase B , and one that used the similarity matrix of WNDS ( with SP ) and again agglomerative clustering with average linkage .
We showed all the clusterings to all the judges .
Each judge was asked to eval - Acknowledgments We thank G . Batistatos , A . Zosakis , and G . Lam - pouras for their annotations in Phase A .
We thank A . Kosmopoulos , G . Lampouras , P . Malakasiotis , and I . Lourentzou for their annotations in Phase B .
The Pearson correlation cannot be computed , as several judges gave the same rating to the first system , for all k .
