Author - Specific Sentiment Aggregation for Polarity Prediction of Reviews In this work , we propose an author - specific sentiment aggregation model for polarity prediction of reviews using an ontology .
We propose an approach to construct a Phrase annotated Author specific Sentiment Ontology Tree ( PASOT ), where the facet nodes are annotated with opinion phrases of the author , used to describe the facets , as well as the author ' s preference for the facets .
We show that an author - specific aggregation of sentiment over an ontology fares better than a flat classification model , which does not take the domain - specific facet importance or author - specific facet preference into account .
We compare our approach to supervised classification using Support Vector Machines , as well as other baselines from previous works , where we achieve an accuracy improvement of 7 . 55 % over the SVM baseline .
Furthermore , we also show the effectiveness of our approach in capturing thwarting in reviews , achieving an accuracy improvement of 11 . 53 % over the SVM baseline .
Keywords : Sentiment Ontology Tree , Author - Specific Facet Preference , Sentiment Aggregation 1 .
Introduction In recent times there has been an explosion in the volume of data in the web .
With the advent of blogs , micro - blogs , online review sites etc .
there is a huge surge of interest in mining these information sources for popular opinions .
Sentiment analysis aims to analyze text to find the user opinion about a given product or its different facets .
The earlier works ( Pang and Lee , 2002 ; Pang and Lee , 2004 ; Turney , 2002 ) in sentiment analysis considered a review as a bag - of - words , where the different topics or facets of a product were ignored .
The more recent works ( Lin and He , 2009 ; Wang et al ., 2011 ; Mukherjee and Bhat - tacharyya , 2012a ; Mukherjee et al ., 2014 ) consider a review as a bag - of - facets , and use approaches like dependency parsing , topic models to extract feature - specific expressions of opinion .
However , the association between the facets influencing the review polarity has been largely ignored .
Although these works extract the feature - specific polarities , they do not give any systematic approach to aggregate those polarities to obtain the overall review polarity .
For example , consider the following review from IMDB : " the acting performance in the movie is mediocre .
the characters are thin and replaceabale .
it has such common figures that it would not have suffered much with a lesser talented cast .
it is likely that those pouring into the theater are going to be those anxious to partake oftarantino ' s quirky dialogue and eccentric directing style .
it ' s good , but it is not anything that made pulp fiction such a revolutionary effort .
this is a more conservative tarantino , but not one that will not satiate true fans ."
... ( 1 ) A flat classification model considering all features to be equally important will fail to capture the positive polarity of this review , as there are more negative feature polarities than positive ones .
The reviewer seems to be impressed with " tarantino ' s direction style " and " quirky dialogue ".
However , the " character roles , acting performance , cast " seem to disappoint him .
The overall review polarity is positive as the reviewer expresses positive opinion about the director and the movie as a whole .
If we consider an ontology tree for the movie , then it can be observed that the positive polarity of the facets higher up in the tree dominate the negative ones at a lower level .
Now , consider the above review from the point of view of different users .
Some may prefer the " character aspects " in the movie over the " director ".
Such users may consider the above review to be negative .
Hence , the polarity of the above review will differ for users having varying facet - specific preferences .
The affective polarity of phrases also depend on the authors .
For example , the affective value of " mediocre " refering to the " acting performance " will have a different affective polarity for different reviewers .
The sentiment aggregation approach over the ontology , thus , should not only capture the domain - specific importance of the facet , given by its depth in the ontology tree , but also the author - specific preference for the facet .
In this work , we show that an author - specific sentiment aggregation over the ontology fares better than the generic sentiment aggregation , which is a global model capturing only popular facet opinions .
We propose an approach to construct a Phrase annotated Author specific Sentiment Ontology Tree ( PASOT ), where each facet node of the domain - specific product ontology is annotated with opinion phrases in the review pertaining to that facet , extracted using Dependency Parsing .
Given a review , we map it to the ontology using a WordNet based similarity measure .
Thereafter , we propose a learning algorithm to find the node polarities and aggregate them bottom - up to find the overall review polarity .
In the process , we learn the ontology weights on a per - author basis , where the node weights in the ontology tree capture the author - specific preference as well as the domain - specific importance of the facet .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows : In Section 2 ., we describe an approach to create the phrase annotated au - tho specific sentiment ontology tree .
Section 3 . discusses the algorithm to learn the ontology weights on a per - author basis and perform a bottom - up sentiment aggregation over the tree to find the overall review polarity .
We present the experimental evaluation of the model on the IMDB movie review dataset in Section 4 .. We also present an interesting use - case to detect thwarting in reviews using our approach .
Related work is discussed in Section 5 ., followed by conclusions .
Figure 1 : Snapshot of Cinema Ontology Tree 2 .
Phrase Annotated Author Specific Sentiment Ontology Tree An ontology can be viewed as a data structure that specifies terms , their properties and relations among them for a richer knowledge representation .
A domain - specific ontology tree consists of domain - specific concepts ( E . g .
' movie ', ' direction ', ' actor ', ' editor ' etc .
are concepts in the movie domain ) and relations between the concepts ( E . g .
" movie has_a actor ", " actor has_a acting ^ erformance ", " movie has_a editorial - department ", " editorial - department has_a colorist " etc .).
Consider the following review from IMDB : " as with any gen - x mtv movie ( like last year ' s dead man on campus ), the movie is marketed for a primarily male audience as indicated by its main selling points : sex and football .
those two items are sure to snare a sizeable box office chunk initially , but sales will decline for two reasons .
first , the football sequences are nothing new ; the sports genre isn ' t mainstream and it ' s been retread to death .
second , the sex is just bad .
despite the appearance ofa whipped cream bikini or the all - night strip - club party , there ' s nothing even remotely tantalizing .
the acting is mostly mediocre , not including the fantastic jon voight .
cultivating his usual slimi - ness , voight gives an unexpectedly standout performance as west canaan coyotes head coach bud kilmer ... these elements ( as well as the heavy drinking and carousing ) might be more appropriate on a college campus - but mtv ' s core audience is the high school demographic .
this focus is further emphasized by the casting : james van der beek , oftv ' s " dawson ' s creek ", is an understandable choice for the reluctant hero ..." ... ( 2 ) Figure 1 shows a snapshot of a movie domain ontology tree for Review 2 .. Only the facets which are present in the review are shown in the ontology .
Sentiment Ontology Tree ( SOT ) A sentiment ontology tree has been used in ( Wei and Gulla , 2010 ; Mukherjee and Joshi , 2013 ) for capturing facet - specific sentiments in a domain .
A Sentiment Ontology Tree ( SOT ) bears all the facets or concepts in a given domain as nodes , with edges between nodes capturing the relationship between the facets .
For a given review , the nodes are annotated with polarities which represent the review polarity with respect to the facet .
The tree captures componential relationship between the product features in a given domain ( E . g .
" movie has_a producer ", " film_aspect has_a story " etc .
), and how the children facet polarities come together to influence the parent facet polarity .
Figure 2 shows a snapshot of the sentiment ontology tree for Review 2 ..
It shows the review polarity to be positive with respect to " acting performance , box office , casting " etc ., and negative with respect to " film character appearance , film setting , structure design " etc .
and the overall movie .
Phrase Annotated Sentiment Ontology Tree A review may consist of many facets with varying opinions about each facet .
Even a single review sentence can bear varying opinions about different facets , like " The acting was fine in the movie but the direction was mediocre ".
Here , the polarity with respect to ' acting ' is positive and that with respect to ' direction ' is negative .
Hence , an SOT considering the sentence as a whole will assign a neutral polarity to both nodes ' actor ' and ' director '.
In our previous work ( Mukherjee and Bhattacharyya , 2012a ), we used a dependency parsing based feature - specific sentiment extraction approach to evaluate the polarity of a sentence with respect to a given facet .
Dependency parsing captures the association between any specific feature and the expressions of opinion that come together to describe that feature .
A set of significant dependency parsing relations ( like " nsubj , dobj , advmod , amod " etc .)
are used to capture important associations between words in the review , followed by clustering to retrieve words associated to the target feature .
Consider a review r consisting of < s > sentences , and < fj > facets .
Let pj be the phrase in the ith sentence associated to the jth facet as given by the above dependency parsing algorithm .
In the phrase annotated SOT , we associate each node fj to all the phrases < pij > associated to it in the review , that are extracted by the dependency parser .
Figure 2 shows a snapshot of the phrase annotated sentiment ontology tree ( PSOT ) for Review 2 .. 2 . 3 .
Phrase Annotated Author Specific Sentiment Ontology Tree ( PASOT ) For the same review , different authors may give a different rating to it depending on their topic and facet preferences .
The overall rating of Review 2 . depends on the taste of the reviewer , and other author - specific properties like gender , age , locale etc .. A reviewer who is a fan of " Jon Voight " would probably give it a positive rating for his performance , whereas others would mostly find the " acting " mediocre and hence assign a negative rating to the movie .
Similarly , teenagers and male audience may be wooed by the main selling points of the movie i . e .
" sex and football ", whereas mature audience would not be impressed by them .
In order to capture the taste of a reviewer , each node fj of the phrase annotated SOT ( PSOT ) is further annotated with the author - specific facet preference wj .
This is a personalized PSOT whose annotations differ across reviewers .
In this author - specific PSOT ( PASOT ), the sentiment annotation of each facet would also differ across reviewers .
For example , consider the node ' actor ' in the above review , and the associated phrase " acting mostly mediocre " given by dependency parsing .
The polarity of this phrase depends on the expectations of a reviewer from a movie .
Figure 3 shows a snapshot of the phrase annotated sentiment ontology tree for a given reviewer for Review 2 .. 2 . 4 .
Ontology Tree Construction In our earlier work ( Mukherjee and Joshi , 2013 ), we had leveraged ConceptNet ( Liu and Singh , 2004 ) to create a domain - specific ontology tree by categorizing its relations into 3 classes namely , Hierarchical ( E . g .
" Located - Near , HasA , PartOf , MadeOf "), Synonymous ( E . g .
" Synonym , IsA , ConceptuallyRelatedTo , InheritsFrom ") and Functional ( E . g .
" UsedFor , CapableOf , HasProperty , De - finedAs ").
ConceptNet is a very large semantic network of common sense knowledge constructed using crowd - sourcing , which also incorporates noise in the network .
We proposed an algorithm to recursively construct an ontology tree by grounding it on the hierarchical relations .
In absence of a semantic knowledge - base to tap into , we proposed ( Mukherjee et al ., 2014 ) an approach to construct a domain - specific ontology for the smartphone domain by considering 4 primary relations namely , Type - Of , Synonymous , Action - On and Function - Of .
We leveraged the English Slot Grammar Parser and Shallow Semantic Relationship Annotation built over the parser output , in conjunction with the Hearst patterns and Random Indexing , built on the Relational Distributional Similarity hypothesis .
In this work , we make use of an available manually constructed ontology from the cinema domain ( JedFilm , 2014 ).
It was constructed using representative sampling and a multi - phased procedure .
The ontology is based on a purposive sampling of document types produced by the film community .
The document subjects are films , randomly - sampled from a large selection of films considered as important by critics and directors .
Purposive sampling selects units for analysis based upon judgment about their usefulness in representing the overall population .
The domain concepts ( nouns or noun phrases ) are stored as Protege ( Protege , 2014 ) " classes ", and categorized hierarchically ( top - down ) within four main branches (" cinema culture , cinema person , filmmaking , film industry ").
The " attribute , example , synonym " and " relation " terms are represented as Protege " slots ", associated to the concept terms .
Mapping of Review to the SOT Given a review , we need to map the words in the review to the constructed SOT .
As the review may contain concepts not present in the ontology but synonymous to some of the nodes , we use a WordNet - based similarity measure for the relatedness of two concepts .
The Wu - Palmer measure ( Wu and Palmer , 1994 ) calculates relatedness between two concepts by considering their depths in the WordNet taxonomy , along with the depth of their Lowest Common Subsumer ( LCS ).
The Wu - Palmer similarity between two concepts si and s2 is given by ^$+ 1 ^ 2 ).
The concept is ignored if the similarity score is less than a threshold .
Author Specific Sentiment Aggregation over Ontology Consider a review r consisting of < sj > sentences , and < fj > facets .
Let pij be the phrase in the it sentence associated to the jth facet as given by the feature - specific dependency parsing algorithm in ( Mukherjee and Bhat - tacharyya , 2012a ).
Consider the phrase annotated sentiment ontology tree T ( V , E ), where V is a product attribute set represented by the tuple Vj =< fj , < Pj >, wj , dj >, where fj is a product facet , wj is the author - specific facet preference and dj is the depth of the product attribute in the ontology tree .
Ej k is an attribute relation connecting Vj and Vk .
Let Vj , fc be the kth child of Vj .
Consider a sentiment predictor function O ( p ) that finds and maps the polarity of a phrase to [- 1 , 1 ].
The author - specific ( PSOT ) is now equipped with Ta ( V , E ) and Oa ( p ) for a given author a .
The expected sentiment weight ( ESW ) of a node in the PASOT is defined as , The expected sentiment weight measures the weighted polarity of a node , taking its self - weight and children weights into consideration .
The self - weight of a node is given by the sum of polarities of all the phrases in the review bearing an opinion about the facet associated with the node , weighed by the author preference for the facet and inverse of its depth in the ontology tree .
The closer a facet is to the root of the tree , the more important it is to the SOT .
Figure 2 : Snapshot of Phrase Annotated Cinema Ontology Tree for Review 2 .
Figure 3 : Snapshot of Author - Specific Phrase Annotated Cinema Ontology Tree for Review 2 .
Facet importance decreases with increase in distance from the root as it becomes more fine - grained .
The review polarity is given by the expected sentiment - weight ( ESW ) of the tree given by ESWa ( root ).
The computation of ESW of the root requires learning of the weights < wja > and the sentiment predictor function Oafor each author a .
80 % of the reviews for each author is used for training parameters , and remaining 20 % reviews are used for testing .
In absence of labeled training reviews , the sentiment predictor function O ( p ) can be implemented using a sentiment lexicon that looks up the polarity of the words in a phrase , assigning the majority polarity to the associated node .
A supervised computation of this function , requires many reviews per - author .
Since the IMDB dataset has much less number of reviews per - author , we settle for a global sentiment predictor function by using an L - regularized L - loss Support Vector Machine and bag - of - words unigram features trained over the movie review corpus in ( Maas et al ., 2011 ).
This means , for sentiment annotation of the opinion phrases associated to the facet nodes , we consider the general polarity of the opinion phrase .
In the earlier example for " the acting is mediocre ", a negative polarity is assigned to the facet " actor " irrespective of the author .
Supervised classification using SVM ' s ( Pang and Lee , 2002 ; Pang and one of the baselines for this work .
For each author a , every facet fj is associated with an expected sentiment weight ESWa ( Vj ), where fj e Vj , that encapsulates the self - importance of the facet as well as the weight of its children .
In order to learn the author - specific facet preference for each node , the weights < wja > in Equation 1 are inititally set to 1 , and the expected sentiment weight ESWa ( Vj ) of all the nodes are computed .
For each review , let yi be the labeled polarity of a review in the training set for each author .
Thereafter , we formulate an L2 - regularized logistic regression problem to find the author - specific weight of each node as follows : mm - waT wa + C > log ( 1 + exp y ^ j j y j ' ) Trust region newton method ( Lin et al ., 2008 ) is used to learn the weights in the above equation , using an implementation of LibLinear ( Fan et al ., 2008 ).
After learning the author - specific facet weights , the polarity of an unseen review ( given its author ) is computed using Equation 1 and ESWa ( root ).
Figure 3 shows a snapshot of the learnt PASOT for Review 2 .. Algorithm 1 gives an overview of the review classification process .
Experimental Evaluation We evaluate the effectiveness of the author - specific sentiment aggregation approach using a phrase annotated sentiment ontology tree over the benchmark IMDB movie review dataset introduced in ( Pang and Lee , 2002 ).
Table 1 shows the data statistics .
Dataset Pre - Processing The movie review dataset contains 2000 reviews and 312 authors with at least 1 review per author .
In order to have sufficient data per author , we retained only those authors with at least 10 reviews .
This reduced the number of reviews to 1467 with 65 authors .
The number of reviews for the 2 ratings ( pos and neg ) is balanced in this dataset .
All the words are lemmatized in the reviews so that ' movie ' and ' movies ' are reduced to the same root word ' movie '.
Words like " hvnt , dnt , cnt , shant " etc .
are replaced with their proper form in both our model and the baselines to capture the negation .
Baselines We consider three baselines in this work to judge the effectiveness of our approach .
The first baseline is the widely used supervised classification ( Pang and Lee , 2002 ; Pang and Lee , 2004 ; Mullen and Collier , 2004 ) using Support Vector Machines with L2 - loss , L2 - regularizer and unigram bag - of - words features .
The second baseline is considered to be our earlier author - specific facet preference work in restaurant reviews ( Mukherjee et al ., 2013 ).
The work considers manually given seed facets like ' food ', ' ambience ', ' service ' etc .
and uses dependency parsing with a sentiment lexicon ( Hu and Liu , 2004 ) to find the sentiment about each facet .
A WordNet similarity metric ( Wu and Palmer , 1994 ) is used Data : Review Dataset R and its Authorset A Result : Review Polarities as + 1 or — 1 1 .
Learn the domain - specific ontology T ( V , E ) using a knowledge - base ( JedFilm , 2014 ) 2 .
Learn a global polarity predictor function O ( p ) over review dataset ( Maas et al ., 2011 ) using L2 - regularized L2 - loss SVM for each author a € A do for each review r written by a do for each sentence s in r do for each word f in s do Map it to T ( V , E ) using Wu - Palmer Similarity if f € V then 1 .
Use Feature - Specific Dependency Parsing Algorithm ( Mukherjee and Bhattacharyya , 2012a ) to extract the phrase pS from s that expresses the reviewer opinion about f Apply the predictor function O ( p ) to each p { € V and annotate the nodes with polarities 1 .
Apply Equation 1 to the PSOT bottom - up to find ESW of each node V using Equation 1 , with wa initialized to 1 .
Using 80 % of the labeled review data ( y t ) for a and < ESWa ( Vj ) >, learn the facet - weights < wj > using Equation 2 for each unseen review r written by a do 1 .
Construct PASOT using the above steps and learnt weights wa 3 . Review polarity is given by Sign ( ESW a ( root )) Algorithm 1 : Author - Specific Hierarchical Sentiment Aggregation for Review Polarity Prediction to assign each facet to a seed facet .
Thereafter , we used linear regression to learn author preference for the seed facets from review ratings .
In this baseline , there is no notion of a domain ontology or hierarchical aggregation .
Our earlier work ( Mukherjee and Joshi , 2013 ) in sentiment aggregation using ontology ignored the identity of the authors .
It only took the domain - specific facet associations into consideration while deciding the overall review polarity .
We consider it to be the third baseline for our work .
It is well - established from earlier works that supervised prediction of polarity fares better than the lexicon - based approaches .
Hence , in the last two baselines we use Support Vector Machines with L2 - loss , L2 - regularizer and unigram bag - of - words features trained over the dataset in ( Maas et al ., 2011 ) to find the polarity of the sentence containing a facet , which is assigned to the facet under consideration .
In this work , we propose an approach to do an author - specific hierarchical aggregation of sentiment over a domain ontology tree using supervision .
This builds over all the earlier baselines .
We report both the accuracy of the classifier over the entire dataset , as well as the author - specific accuracy .
The latter computes the average accuracy of the classifier per - author .
Results Table 2 shows the accuracy comparison of our approach with different baselines .
We also compare our approach to other works in the domain on the same dataset and report five - fold cross validation results in Table 3 .
Figure 4 shows the variation of the Expected Sentiment Weight of different features with the overall review rating for the author of Review 2 ..
The expected sentiment weight of a feature encapsulates the feature polarity in the review , the feature depth in the ontology and the author - preference for the feature .
The following movie features are considered for analysis : " film story , film type , film crew , film character aspect , film dialogue , film visual effect , film crew " and " camera crew ".
Figure 5 shows the variation of the Expected Sentiment Weight of different features with the overall review rating for 10 authors .
Thwarting The concept of " thwarted expectations " was first introduced by ( Pang and Lee , 2002 ), and since then it has been considered to be a difficult and challenging problem to deal with ( Pang and Lee , 2002 ; Mullen and Collier , 2004 ; Mukherjee and Bhattacharyya , 2012b ).
Thwarting phenomenon is observed where the overall review polarity is different from that of the majority of the opinion words in the review .
The authors argued that some sophisticated technique is required to determine the focus of each review sentence and its relatedness to the review , as " the whole is not necessarily the sum of the parts " ( Turney , 2002 ).
Consider the classical example of thwarting from ( Pang and " This film sounds like a great plot , the actors are first grade , and the supporting cast is good as well , and Stallone is attempting to deliver a good performance .
However , it can ' t hold up " Models Acc .
RAE Semi Supervised Recursive Auto Encoders with 76 . 8 random word initialization ( Socher et al ., 2011 ) WikiSent : Extractive Summarization with Wikipedia + 76 . 85 Lexicon ( Mukherjee and Bhattacharyya , 2012b ) RAE : Supervised Recursive Auto Encoders with 10 % 77 . 7 cross - validation ( Socher et al ., 2011 ) JST : Without Subjectivity Detection using LDA ( Lin 82 . 8 and He , 2009 ) Table 3 : Comparison of Existing Models with PASOT in the IMDB Dataset The overall review sentiment is negative despite having more positive sentiment words than negative ones .
This implies that the overall review sentiment should not be a simple aggregation over all the polarities in a review .
Here , the author sentiment is positive about " plot , actors " and " cast ", which is not as important as his negative sentiment about the most important feature of the review , i . e .
the " film ".
Thus the review rating should be a weighted function of the individual feature - specific polarities ; where the domain importance and author preference of a feature should be considered to find the overall review polarity .
The proper polarity of this review is captured in our approach , as the negative polarity of " movie " at the top of the ontology tree is weighed up by ( inverse of ) its depth and the author preference , making it dominate other features with positive polarities at a greater depth in the tree .
Table 4 shows the number of reviews for positive thwarted and negative thwarted data used in our experimentation , as well as the accuracy comparison of our approach with an L2 - loss Support Vector Machine baseline using bag - of - words features .
Discussions Table 2 shows the gradual performance improvement ( in terms of overall accuracy ) of each of the models - Author - Table 1 : Movie Review Dataset Statistics (* denotes the original data , _L indicates processed data ) Table 2 : Accuracy Comparison with Baselines Figure 4 : Variation of Expected Sentiment Weight of Facets with Review Rating for a Specific Author Figure 5 : Variation of Expected Sentiment Weight of Facets with Review Rating for 10 Authors Specific LR , Ontological Sentiment Aggregation and PA - SOT , over the SVM baseline .
The Phrase annotated Author specific Sentiment Ontology Tree ( PASOT ) approach achieves an overall accuracy improvement of 7 . 55 % and 6 % average accuracy improvement for each author , over the bag - of - words SVM baseline .
Table 3 shows the accuracy comparison of our approach with all the state - of - the - art systems in the domain that used the same IMDB dataset as ours .
Since the objective of this work has been to show the effectiveness of an author - specific , hierarchical sentiment aggregation approach that can be built over an unigram bag - of - words SVM baseline , we did not experiment with a richer feature representation ; for example , a combination of unigrams and bigrams with subjectivity analysis ( Pang and Lee , 2004 ) built into the SVM have been found to be effective features for movie review classification .
However , even with simple unigram features our model performs better than many systems using a richer feature representation .
Table 4 shows the effectiveness of our approach in capturing thwarting in reviews , where we achieve an accuracy improvement of 11 .
53 % over the SVM baseline .
Figure 4 shows the variation of the Expected Sentiment Weight of different features with the overall review rating for the author of Review 2 ..
It shows that the overall rating of a movie by this author is highly influenced by the " film type " ( genre ), the characters in the film (" film character aspects "), " film dialogue " and " acting " of the protagonists , whereas he is quite flexible with the quality of " film story ".
Figure 5 shows the variation of the Expected Sentiment Weight of different features with the overall review rating for 10 authors .
It shows that , in general , the quality of the " film story " and its genre (" film type ") plays a deciding role for the overall rating of the movie .
The graph further shows that Author 1 seems to be flexible with the quality of " acting " provided the " film type " is good , whereas Author 10 has a high preference for the quality of " acting " which decides his movie ratings .
This clearly depicts the importance of an author - specific analysis for reviews , where facet preferences vary for different authors leading to different overall ratings .
Related Work Earlier works ( Pang and Lee , 2002 ; Pang and Lee , 2004 ; Turney , 2002 ; Mullen and Collier , 2004 ) in sentiment analysis considered a review as a bag - of - words , where the different topics or facets of a product were ignored .
Features like unigrams , bigrams , adjectives etc .
were used followed by the usage of phrase - based features like part - of - speech sequences ( E . g .
adjectives followed by nouns ).
These works were followed by feature - specific sentiment analysis , where the polarity of a sentence or a review is determined with respect to a given feature .
Approaches like dependency parsing ( Mukherjee and Bhattacharyya , 2012a ), joint sentiment topic model ( Lin and He , 2009 ) have been used to extract feature - specific opinions .
Latter works focused on aspect rating prediction that identifies aspects , aspect ratings , and weights placed on the aspects in a review ( Wang et al ., 2011 ).
All of these works attempt to learn a global model over the corpus , independent of the author of the review , and capture only the popular sentiment .
In our recent works ( Mukher - jee et al ., 2013 ; Mukherjee et al ., 2014 ), we focused on learning the effect of author - specific facet preferences and author - writing style in modeling a review from the point of view of an author .
Table 4 : Thwarting Accuracy Comparison However , these works ignore the association between the features of a product that influence the overall rating of a review .
Some recent works have focused on the hierarchical learning of a product ' s attributes and their associated sentiments in product reviews using a Sentiment Ontology Tree ( Wei and Gulla , 2010 ; Mukherjee and Joshi , 2013 ).
In this work , we bring together all of the above ideas to propose an author - specific , hierarchical aggregation of sentiment over a product ontology tree .
Conclusions In this work , we show that an author - specific sentiment aggregation of reviews perform better than an author - independent model that does not take the author - specific facet preferences and domain - specific facet relationships into account .
We propose an approach to construct a Phrase annotated Author specific Sentiment Ontology Tree ( PASOT ), where the facet nodes are annotated with opinion phrases of the author in the review and the author ' s preference for the facets .
We perform experiments in the movie review domain , where we achieve an accuracy improvement of 7 .
55 % over the SVM baseline .
As a use - case , we show that our approach is effective in capturing thwarting in reviews , achieving an accuracy improvement of 11 .
53 % over the SVM baseline .
