UoM : Using Explicit Semantic Analysis for Classifying Sentiments In this paper , we describe our system submitted for the Sentiment Analysis task at Se - mEval 2013 ( Task 2 ).
We implemented a combination of Explicit Semantic Analysis ( ESA ) with Naive Bayes classifier .
ESA represents text as a high dimensional vector of explicitly defined topics , following the distributional semantic model .
This approach is novel in the sense that ESA has not been used for Sentiment Analysis in the literature , to the best of our knowledge .
1 Introduction Semantic relatedness measure gives the comparison of different terms or texts on the basis of their meaning or the content .
For instance , it can be said that the word " computer " is semantically more related to " laptop " than " flute ".
Sentiment analysis refers to the task of determining the overall contextual polarity of the written text .
In this paper , we propose the use of semantic relatedness models , specifically Explicit Semantic Analysis ( ESA ), to identify textual polarity .
There are different approaches to model semantic relatedness like WordNet based models ( Banerjee and Banerjee , 2002 ), distributional semantic models ( DSMs ) etc .
DSMs follow the distributional hypothesis , which says that words occurring in the same contexts tend to have similar meanings ( Harris , 1954 ).
Therefore , considering sentiment classification problem , distributional hypothesis suggests that the words or phrases referring to positive polarity would tend to co - occur , and similar assumptions can be made for the negative terms .
DSMs generally utilize large textual corpora to extract the distributional information relying on the co - occurrence information and distribution of the terms .
These models represent the text in the form of high - dimensional vectors highlighting the co - occurrence information .
Semantic relatedness between two given texts is calculated by using these vectors , thus , following that the the semantic meaning of a text can be inferred from its usage in different contexts .
There are several different computational models following distributional semantics hypothesis .
Latent Semantic Analysis ( LSA ), Latent Dirichlet Allocation ( LDA ) ( Blei et .
al ., 2003 ), Explicit Semantic Analysis ( ESA ) are some examples of such models .
However , in this work , we investigated the use of ESA for the given task of sentiment analysis ( SA ).
There are two sub - tasks defined in Task 2 at SemEval 2013 ( SemEval , 2013 ).
We participated in Message Polarity Classification sub - task , where we are required to automatically classify the sentiment of a given message into positive , negative , or neutral .
The task deals with the short texts coming from Twitter and SMS ( Short Message Service ).
We are provided with 8 , 000 - 12 , 000 twitter messages annotated with their sentiment label for the purpose of training the models .
In this work , we present our approach for sentiment classification which uses a combination of ESA and Naive Bayes classifier .
The rest of the paper is structured as follows : Section 2 discusses some related work in this context .
Section Second Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (* SEM ), Volume 2 : Seventh International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation ( SemEval 2013 ), pages 535 - 538 , Atlanta , Georgia , June 14 - 15 , 2013 .
© 2013 Association for Computational Linguistics 3 briefly explains ESA .
Section 4 describes our approaches while Section 5 explains the submitted runs for our system to the task .
Section 6 reports the results , and we conclude in section 7 .
2 Related Work The research in SA initiated with the classical machine learning algorithms like Naive Bayes , Maximum Entropy etc .
using intuitive features like un - igrams , bigrams , parts of speech information , position of words , adjectives etc .
( Pang et .
However , such approaches are heavily dependent upon the given training data , and therefore can be very limited for SA due to out of vocabulary words and phrases , and different meanings of words in different contexts ( Pang and Lee , 2008 ).
Due to these problems , several methods have been investigated to use some seed words for extracting more positive and negative terms with the help of lexical resources like WordNet etc ., for instance , Senti - WordNet , which defines the polarity of the word along with the intensity .
In this paper , we model the sentiment classification using DSMs based on explicit topic models ( Cimiano et .
al ., 2009 ), which incorporate correlation information from a corpus like Wikipedia , to generalize from a few known positive or negative terms .
There have been some other attempts to utilize topic models in this regards , but they mainly focussed on latent topic models ( Lin and He , 2009 ) ( Maas et .
Joint sentiment topic model introduced LDA based unsupervised topic models in sentiment analysis by pointing out that sentiments are often topic dependent because same word / phrase could represent different sentiments for different topics ( Lin and He , 2009 ).
The recent work by Maas et .
( Maas et .
al ., 2011 ) on using latent concept models presented a mixture model of un - supervised and supervised techniques to learn word vectors capturing semantic term - document information along with the sentiment content .
3 Explicit Semantic Analysis Explicit Semantic Analysis ( ESA ) is a technique for computing semantic relatedness between texts using distributional information ( Gabrilovich and Markovitch , 2007 ).
ESA represents text as vectors of concepts explicitly defined by humans , like Wikipedia articles .
This provides an intuitive and easily understandable topic space for humans , in contrast to the latent topic space in latent mod - els . Input texts are represented as multidimensional vectors of weighted concepts .
The procedure of computing semantic relatedness involves comparing the vectors corresponding to the given texts e . g .
using cosine product .
The magnitude of each dimension in the vector is the associativity weight of the text to that explicit concept / dimension .
To quantify this associativity , the textual content related to the explicit concept / dimension is utilized .
This weight can be calculated by considering different methods , for instance , tf - idf score .
ESA has been proved to be a generalized vector space model ( Gottron et .
4 Methodology We implemented a combination of traditional machine learning based approach for SA using Naive Bayes algorithm , and ESA based sentiment identification .
To perform sentiment classification solely using ESA , we asses the similarity of a new text against the text whose sentiment is already known , using ESA .
More similar is a text to a particular sentiment annotated text , better are its chances to belong to the same sentiment class .
On the other hand , we followed a standard classification approach by learning Naive Bayes over the given training data .
Finally , we consult both ESA and Naive Bayes for classifying the text .
The overall probability of a text belonging to a particular sentiment class was determined by weighted sum of ESA similarity score , and the scores given by Naive Bayes classifier .
The sentiment class with the highest total score was accepted as the sentiment of the input text .
The individual weights of ESA and Naive Bayes were determined by linear regression for our experiments .
5 System Description We created three bags of words ( BOW ) corresponding to the different sentiment classes ( positive , negative , and neutral ) annotated in the training data .
These BOWs were used as the definition of the particular sentiment class for making the ESA comparisons , and for learning Naive Bayes .
We used unigrams and bigrams as features for the Naive Bayes algorithm .
The ESA implementation was replicated from the version available on Github , replacing the Wikipedia dump by the version released in February 2013 .
We submitted two runs each for Twitter and SMS test data .
The first run ( constrained ) used only the provided training data for learning while the second run ( unconstrained ) used a combination of external training data coming from the popular movie review dataset ( Pang et .
al ., 2002 ), and the data provided with the task .
6 Results and discussion The first four entries provided in the table 1 correspond to the four runs submitted in SemEval - 2013 Task 2 .
The fifth entry corresponds to the results of a separate experiment performed by us , to estimate the influence of ESA on SA .
According to the F - scores , ESA is unable to identify the sentiment in the texts following the mentioned approach .
The results suggest that combining Naive Bayes to the system improved the overall scores .
However , even the combined system could not perform well .
Also , the mixing of external data lowered the scores indicating incompatibility of the external training data with the provided data .
7 Conclusion We presented an approach of using ESA for sentiment classification .
The submitted system follow a combination of standard Naive Bayes model and ESA based classification .
The results of the task suggests that the approach we used for ESA based classification is unable to identify the sentiment accurately .
As a future step , we plan to investigate more on the usability of ESA for sentiment classification , for instance , by using suitable features in the concept definitions , and weighing them according to the different sentiment classes .
https :// github . com / kasooja / clesa Table 1 : Results
