Aspect - Level Sentiment Analysis in Czech This paper presents a pioneering research on aspect - level sentiment analysis in Czech .
The main contribution of the paper is the newly created Czech aspect - level sentiment corpus , based on data from restaurant reviews .
We annotated the corpus with two variants of aspect - level sentiment - aspect terms and aspect categories .
The corpus consists of 1 , 244 sentences and 1 , 824 annotated aspects and is freely available to the research community .
Furthermore , we propose a baseline system based on supervised machine learning .
Our system detects the aspect terms with F - measure 68 . 65 % and their polarities with accuracy 66 . 27 %.
The categories are recognized with F - measure 74 . 02 % and their polarities with accuracy 66 . 61 %.
1 Introduction The interest in sentiment analysis ( SA ) is increasing with the amount of easily accessible content on the web , especially from the social media .
Sentiment polarity is one of the critical information needed for many analysis of the data .
Its use ranges from analysing product reviews ( Stepanov and Riccardi , 2011 ) to predicting sales and stock markets using social media monitoring ( Yu et al ., 2013 ).
The majority of current approaches tries to detect the overall polarity of a sentence ( or a document ) regardless of the target entities ( e . g ., restaurants , laptops ) and their aspects ( e . g ., food , price , battery , screen ).
By contrast , the aspect - driven sentiment analysis identifies the aspects of a given target entity and estimates the sentiment polarity for each mentioned aspect .
This opens up completely new possibilities how to analyse the data .
The most of the research in automatic sentiment analysis has been devoted to English .
There were several attempts in Czech ( Steinberger et al ., 2011 ; Veselovskâ , 2012 ; Habernal et al ., 2013 ; Brychcm and Habernal , 2013 ), but all were focused on the global ( sentence - or document - level ) sentiment .
Although Czech is not a widely - spoken language on the global scale , it is in many ways similar to other Slavic languages and their speakers altogether represent an important group .
The rich morphology and the free word order also makes it interesting from the linguistic perspective .
Our main goal is the creation of a aspect - level corpus as there is no such resource for Czech .
We would like to support the beginning of aspect - level sentiment analysis for Czech and a human - annotated corpus is the first step in this direction .
In addition , we want to provide results of a baseline system ( based on machine leaning techniques ).
This creates an easily reproducible starting point and allows anyone to quickly join the research of this task .
The rest of the paper is organised as follows .
Section 2 is devoted to related work .
It covers the aspect - level SA and sentiment analysis in Czech .
Then we introduce the aspect - level architecture ( Section 3 ) used for both the annotation of the corpus ( Section 4 ) and for the automatic supervised approach ( Section 5 ).
In Section 6 we sumarize our contribution and reveal our future plans .
2 Related work The impact of SA can be seen in many practical applications , The users ' opinions are mostly extracted either on a certain polarity scale , or binary ( positive , negative ).
From the point of view of the granularity , the polarity has been assigned to a document or to a sentence .
However , classifying opinions at the document level or the sentence level is often insufficient for applications because they do not identify opinion targets or assign sentiments to such targets ( Fiu , 2012 ).
Even if we recognize the target entity ( as the entity - centered approaches do ( e . g .
Steinberger et al .
( 2011 )), a positive opinion about the entity does not mean that the author has positive opinions about all aspects of the entity .
Aspect - based sentiment analysis , which has been also called ' feature - based ' ( Hu and Liu , 2004 ), goes even deeper as it attempts to identify ( and assign the polarity to ) aspects of the target entity within a sentence ( Hajmohammadi et al ., 2012 ).
Whenever we talk about an aspect , we must know which entity it belongs to .
In the further discussion , we often omit the entity as we analysed restaurant reviews and thus our target entities are the reviewed restaurants .
2 . 1 Aspect - based sentiment analysis The aspect scenario can be decomposed into two tasks : aspect extraction and aspect sentiment classification ( Liu , 2012 ).
2 . 1 . 1 Aspect extraction The task of aspect extraction , which can also be seen as an information extraction task , is to detect aspects that have been evaluated .
For example , in the sentence , The voice quality of this phone is amazing , the aspect is voice quality of the entity represented by this phone .
The basic approach is finding frequent nouns and noun phrases .
In ( Liu et al ., 2005 ), a specific method based on a sequential learning method was proposed to extract aspects from pros and cons , Blair - Goldensohn et al .
( 2008 ) refined the frequent noun and noun phrase approach by considering mainly those noun phrases that are in sentiment - bearing sentences or in some syntactic patterns which indicate sentiments .
Moghaddam and Ester ( 2010 ) augmented the frequency - based approach with an additional pattern - based filter to remove some non - aspect terms .
Long et al .
( 2010 ) extracted aspects ( nouns ) based on frequency and information distance .
Using supervised learning is another option .
Aspect extraction can be seen as a special case of the general information extraction problem .
The most dominant methods are based on sequential learning .
Since these are supervised techniques , they need manually labeled data for training .
One needs to manually annotate aspects and non - aspects in a corpus .
The current state - of - the - art sequential learning methods are Hidden Markov Models ( HMM ) ( Rabiner , 2010 ) and Conditional Random Fields ( CRF ) ( Lafferty et al ., 2001 ).
The last group of methods use topic models ( Mei et al ., 2007 ; Titov and McDonald , 2008 ; Blei et al ., 2003 ).
There are two main basic models , pLSA ( Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis ) ( Hofmann , 1999 ) and LDA ( Latent Dirichlet allocation ) ( Blei et al ., 2003 ).
In the SA context , one can design a joint model to model both sentiment words and topics at the same time , due to the observation that every opinion has a target .
2 . 1 . 2 Aspect sentiment classification This task is to determine whether the opinions on different aspects are positive , negative , or neutral .
The classification approaches can be divided to supervised learning approaches and lexicon - based approaches .
Supervised learning performs better in a particular application domain but it has difficulty to scale up to a large number of domains .
Lexicon - based techniques often lose the fight against the learning but they are suitable for open - domain applications ( Liu , 2012 ).
The key issue for learning methods is to determine the scope of each sentiment expression , i . e ., whether it covers the aspect of interest in the sentence .
In ( liang et al ., 2011 ), a dependency parser was used to generate a set of aspect dependent features for classification .
A related approach was also used in ( Boiy and Moens , 2009 ), which weights each feature based on the position of the feature relative to the target aspect in the parse tree .
Lexicon - based approaches use a list of sentiment phrases as the core resource .
The method in ( Ding et al ., 2008 ) has four steps to assign a polarity to an aspect : mark sentiment words and phrases , apply sentiment shifters , handle but - clauses and aggregate opinions using an aggregation function ( e . g .
Hu and Liu ( 2004 )).
2 . 2 Sentiment analysis for Czech Pilot study of Czech sentiment analysis was shown in ( Steinberger et al ., 2012 ) where sentiment dictionaries for many languages ( including Czech ) were created using semi - automatic " triangulation " method .
Veselovskâ ( 2012 ) created a small corpus containing polarity categories for 410 news sentences and used the Naive Bayes and lexicon - based classifiers .
Three large labeled corpora ( 10k Facebook posts , 90k movie reviews , and 130k product reviews ) were introduced in ( Habernal et al ., 2013 ).
Authors also evaluate three different classifiers , namely Naive Bayes , SVM ( Support Vector Machines ) and Maximum Entropy on these data .
Recently , Habernal and Brychcin ( 2013 ) experimented with building word clusters , obtained from semantic spaces created on unlabeled data , as an additional source of information to tackle the high flection issue in Czech .
These results were later outperformed by another unsupervised extension ( Brychcin and Habernal , 2013 ), where the global target context was shown to be very useful source of information .
3 The task definition The aspect - level sentiment analysis firstly identifies the aspects of the target entity and then assigns a polarity to each aspect .
There are several ways to define aspects and polarities .
We use the definition based on the Semeval2014 ' s Aspect - based SA task , which distinguishes two types of aspect - level sentiment - aspect terms and aspect categories .
The task is decomposed into the following 4 sub tasks .
We briefly describe each sub task and give some examples of source sentences and the expected results of the subtask .
3 . 1 Subtask 1 : Aspect term extraction Given a set of sentences with pre - identified entities ( e . g ., restaurants ), the task is to identify the aspect terms present in the sentence and return a list containing all the distinct aspect terms .
An aspect term names a particular aspect of the target entity .
Examples : Dëti dostaly naprosto krvavé maso .
( They brought a totally bloody meat to the kids .)
maso ( meat ) Tlacenka se rozpadla , polévka usla .
( The porkpie broke down , the soup was ok .) Tlacenka ( porkpie ), polévka ( soup ) 3 . 2 Subtask 2 : Aspect term polarity For a given set of aspect terms within a sentence , the task is to determine the polarity of each aspect term : positive , negative , neutral or bipolar ( i . e ., both positive and negative ).
Examples : Dëti dostaly naprosto krvavé maso .
( They brought a totally bloody meat to the kids .)
maso ( meat ): negative Tlacenka se rozpadla , polévka usla .
( The porkpie broke down , the soup was ok .) Tlacenka ( porkpie ): negative , polévka ( soup ): positive 3 . 3 Subtask 3 : Aspect category detection Given a predefined set of aspect categories ( e . g ., price , food ), the task is to identify the aspect categories discussed in a given sentence .
Aspect categories are typically coarser than the aspect terms of Subtask 1 , and they do not necessarily occur as terms in the given sentence .
For example , given the set of aspect categories food , service , price , ambience : Pfivûala nâs velmi pnjemnâ servîrka , ale také mistnost s osuntëlym nâbytkem .
( We found a very nice waitress but also a room with time - worn furniture .)
service , ambience Tlacenka se rozpadla , polévka usla .
( The porkpie broke down , the soup was ok .) food 3 . 4 Subtask 4 : Aspect category polarity Given a set of pre - identified aspect categories ( e . g ., food , price ), the task is to determine the polarity ( positive , negative , neutral or bipolar ) of each aspect category .
Examples : Pfivûala nâs velmi pnjemnâ servîrka , ale také mistnost s osuntëlym nâbytkem .
( We found a very nice waitress but also a room with time - worn furniture .)
service : positive , ambience : negative Tlacenka se rozpadla , polévka usla .
( The porkpie broke down , the soup was ok .) food : bipolar 4 Building the aspect - level corpus Aspect - level annotations are strictly connected to the analysed domain .
As our final goal is going multilingual , we work on the domains selected for the Semeval2014 ' s Aspect - based SA task ( restaurants , laptop ) which will allow us to compare approaches for both English and Czech on the same domains .
We started with the restaurants and in the future , we would also like to cover the laptops .
We downloaded restaurant reviews from www .
Ten restaurants with the largest number of reviews were selected .
The reviews were splitted into sentences .
Average number of sentences per restaurant was 223 .
4 . 1 Guidelines The purpose of this annotation was to detect aspects and their sentiment polarity within sentences .
The target entities were particular restaurants .
For a given restaurant , the annotator had following tasks : 1 .
Identify irrelevant sentences : Sentences that do not contain any information relevant to the topic of restaurants .
They were later filtered out of the corpus .
Example : Urâzet nëkoho pro jeho nâzor je nedùstojné dospëlého clovëka .
( Offencing somebody for his opinion is discreditable for an adult .)
Identify aspect terms : Single or multiword terms naming particular aspects of the target entity .
These are either full nominal phrases ( spiz a restované brambory - skewer with fried potatoes ) or verbs ( stoji - priced ).
References , names or pronouns should not be annotated .
Aspect term polarity : Each aspect term has to be assigned one of the following polarities based on the sentiment that is expressed in the sentence about it : positive , negative , bipolar ( both positive and negative sentiment ) and neutral ( neither positive nor negative sentiment ).
Aspect category : The task of the annotator is to identify the aspect categories discussed in a sentence given the following five aspect categories : food , service , price , ambience , general ( sentences mentioning the restaurant as a whole ).
Example : Celkovë doporucuji a vrâtîm se tarn - Overall I would recommend it and go back again .
general .
Aspect category polarity : Each aspect category discussed by a particular sentence has to be assigned one of the following polarities based on the sentiment that is expressed in the sentence about it : positive , negative , bipolar , neutral .
4 . 2 Annotation statistics Three native Czech speakers annotated in total 1 , 532 sentences .
18 . 8 % of the sentences were marked as irrelevant , leaving 1 , 244 sentences for further analysis .
Their average agreement for the task of aspect terms ' identification was 82 . 6 % ( measured by F - measure ).
Only strict matches were considered correct .
In the case of identifying the categories , their average agreement ( F - measure ) was 91 . 8 %.
The annotators agreed on 85 . 5 % ( accuracy ) in the task of assigning polarity to terms and on 82 . 4 % ( accuracy ) in the case of the category polarity assignment .
It corresponds to Cohen ' s of 0 . 762 , resp .
0 . 711 , which represents a substantial agreement level ( Pustejovsky and Stubbs , 2013 ), therefore the task can be considered as well - defined .
There were several reasons of disagreement .
The annotators did not always itentify the same terms , mainly in the cases with general meaning .
In the case of polarity , the annotators did not agree on the most difficult cases to which bipolar class could be assigned : Trochu pfesolenâ omâcka , ale jinak luxus .
( Too salted sauce , but luxury otherwise .)
food : bipolar vs . positive The cases , on which the two annotators did not agree , were judged by the third super - annotator and golden standard data were created .
The final dataset contains 1244 sentences .
The sentences contain 1824 annotated aspect terms ( 679 positive , 725 negative , 403 neutral , 17 bipolar ) and 1365 categories ( 521 positive , 569 negative , 246 neutral , 28 bipolar ).
5 Results of the supervised approach 5 . 1 Overview We use machine learning approach in all subtasks .
For aspect term extraction we use Conditional Random Fields ( CRF ).
For the other three tasks we use the Maximum Entropy classifier .
We use the Brainy implementation of these algorithms .
During the data preprocessing , we use simple word tokenizer based on regular expressions .
All tokens are lowercased for tasks 3 and 4 .
Due to the complex morphology of Czech we also use the un - !
We will provide the dataset at http : // liks .
zcu . cz / sentiment .
Available at http :// home . zcu . cz /~ konkol / brainy . php supervised stemmer called HPS , that has already proved to be useful in sentiment analysis ( Habernal et al ., 2013 ; Habernal and Brychcin , 2013 ; Brychcin and Habernal , 2013 ).
All particular sub tasks share following features : Bag of words : The occurrence of a word .
Bag of bigrams : The occurrence of a bigram .
Bag of stems : The occurrence of a stem .
Bag of stem bigrams : The occurrence of a stem bigram .
5 . 2 Aspect term extraction The system for aspect term extraction is based on CRF .
The choice of CRF is based on a current state of the art in named entity recognition ( see for example ( Konkol and Konopfk , 2013 )) as it is a very similar task .
We use the BIO ( Ramshaw and Marcus , 1999 ) model to represent aspect terms .
In addition to the previously mentioned features we use affixes and learned dictionaries .
Affixes are simply prefixes and suffixes of length 2 to 4 .
Learned dictionaries are phrases that are aspect terms in the training data .
Our system achieved 58 . 14 precision , 83 . 80 recall and 68 . 65 F - measure .
5 . 3 Aspect term polarity During the detection of the aspect term polarities , the words affecting the sentiment of the aspect term are assumed to be close in most of cases .
Thus we use a small window ( 10 words in both directions ) around the target aspect term .
We assume the further the word or bigram is from the target aspect term , the lower impact it has on sentiment label .
To model this assumption we use a weight for each word and bigram feature taken from the Gaussian distribution according to distance from aspect term .
The mean is set to 0 and variance is optimized on training data .
The classifier uses only the features presented in section 5 . 1 .
The results are presented in table 1 .
5 . 4 Aspect category detection Aspect category detection is based on the Maximum Entropy classifiers .
We use one binary classifier for each category .
Each classifier then decides whether the sentence has the given category Available at http : // liks .
Table 1 : Aspect term polarity results .
, and denote the precision , recall and F - measure .
The results are expressed by percentages .
For this task we use only the bag of stems and Tf - Idf features .
Our system achieved 68 . 71 precision , 80 . 21 recall and 74 . 02 F - measure .
5 . 5 Aspect category polarity For the category polarity detection we use the same features as for aspect term polarity detection .
However in this case , we always take the whole sentence into account .
We cannot take a limited window as we do not know where exactly the category is mentioned in the sentence .
Moreover , it can be at several positions .
To distinguish between different categories we use multiple Maximum Entropy classifiers , one for each category .
The results are shown in table 2 .
Table 2 : Aspect category polarity results .
and denote the precision , recall and Fmeasure .
The results are expressed by percentages .
5 . 6 Discussion In section 5 we described our system for aspect - level sentiment analysis and showed the results .
We do not use any language - dependent features , everything is learned from the training data .
It is thus possible to say that our system is both language and domain independent , i . e .
the system is able to work for any domain or language , if the training data are provided .
From another perspective , the already trained model is language and domain dependent ( i . e .
the model trained on restaurant domain probably will not perform well on laptop domain ).
The dependence on the domain has multiple reasons .
First , the categories are defined strictly for one domain ( e . g .
food , price , etc .).
Second , many words can have different sentiment polarity in different domains .
In general , the sentiment analysis deals with many problems .
These problems are much more evident for Czech as a representative of language with rich morphology and also with almost free word order .
Here are two examples , where our system wrongly estimate the sentiment label .
( There is nothing to complain about .)
general : positive The sentence contains words that frequently occur in negative reviews : nie - nothing , stëzovat - complain ; but the sentence is positive .
( One can only read about these gourmand and delicious experiences , but the reality is completely different .)
food : negative Sentence contains words like labuznickych - gourmand and delikatesnwh - delicious that are strictly positive , but in this context it is mentioned negatively .
As we already said , this is the pilot study of aspect - level sentiment analysis in Czech .
Several studies about sentence - level sentiment analysis of Czech have been already published , and thus it is worth comparing how these two tasks differ in terms of difficulty .
Note that the aspect - level sentiment analysis has to deal with multiple aspects and categories in a given sentence , and thus it is apparently a much more difficult task .
We believe the results of ( Brychcin and Habernal , 2013 ) on Czech movie reviews dataset can be a comparable example of sentence - level sentiment analysis as they also distinguish 3 sentiment labels ( positive , negative and neutral ) and the data are taken from a closed domain ( movies ).
Their best result ( given by the model with all extensions ) is 81 . 53 %.
Our best results are 66 . 27 % and 66 . 61 % for aspect and category polarity detection , respectively .
6 Conclusion The aspect level sentiment analysis has not been studied for Czech yet .
The main reason for this is the lack of annotated data .
In this paper , we create a high quality gold data for this task , we describe our approach to their annotation and discuss their properties .
Corpus is available for free at http : // liks . fav . zcu . cz / sentiment .
We also propose a baseline model based on state - of - the - art supervised machine learning techniques .
Our system is language and domain independent , i . e .
it can be easily trained on data from another domain or language .
It achieved 68 . 65 % F - measure in the aspect term detection , 74 . 02 % F - measure in the aspect category assigning , 66 . 27 % accuracy in the aspect term polarity classification , and 66 . 61 % accuracy in the aspect category polarity classification .
In the future , we would like to continue the aspect - level research direction in three ways .
We would like to extend the currently created restaurant reviews ' corpus , to add the second ( laptop ' s ) domain to the corpus , and finally , to experiment with extensions to the baseline system .
As the corpus for the Semeval2014 aspect - based SA task contains review sentences from the same domains , we will be able to compare the results of the system cross - lingually .
Acknowledgments This work was supported by grant no .
SGS - 2013 - 029 Advanced computing and information systems , by the European Regional Development Fund ( ERDF ), by project " NTIS - New Technologies for Information Society ", European Centre of Excellence , CZ .
1 . 05 / 1 . 1 . 00 / 02 . 0090 , and by project MediaGist , EU ' s FP7 People Programme ( Marie Curie Actions ), no 630786 .
