Gene – disease association extraction by text mining and network analysis Biomedical relations play an important role in biological processes .
In this work , we combine information filtering , grammar parsing and network analysis for gene - disease association extraction .
The proposed method first extracts sentences potentially containing information about gene - diseases interactions based on maximum entropy classifier with topic features .
And then Probabilistic Context - Free Grammars is applied for gene - disease association extraction .
The network of genes and the disease is constituted by the extracted interactions , network centrality metrics are used for calculating the importance of each gene .
We used breast cancer as testing disease for system evaluation .
The 31 top ranked genes and diseases by the weighted degree , betweenness , and closeness centralities have been checked relevance with breast cancer through NCBI database .
The evaluation showed 83 . 9 % accuracy for the testing genes and diseases , 74 . 2 % accuracy for the testing genes .
1 Introduction Since the start of Human Genome Project in 1990 , over 40 kinds of organism genome have been sequenced .
Biological databases expand rapidly with the exponential growth of biological data .
For instance , until now , over 260 , 000 named organisms have their nucleotide sequences in the GenBank ( Benson et al .
2008 ) which integrates data from the major DNA and protein sequence .
However , data is not information .
Compared with situations before 2003 , the key problem today has turned to methods of knowledge extraction .
Understanding the role of genetics in diseases is one of the major goals of the post - genome era .
The expanding rate of knowledge in gene - disease associations can hardly match up with the growth of biological data .
It takes time before new discoveries are included in the databases such as Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man ( OMIM ), and most of the information represented in these databases is manually collected from literature .
To address this challenge , we proposed an automatic gene - disease association extraction approach based on text mining and network analysis .
We combine information filtering , grammar parsing and network analysis .
We started by calculating main topics of each sentences in the corpus based on supervised Latent Dirichlet Allocation ( sLDA ) model ( Blei and McAuliffe 2007 ).
The most probable topics derived from sLDA model for each sentence are used as features for training maximum entropy ( MaxEnt ) ( Manning and Schutze , 1999 ) classifier , which extracts sentences potentially containing information about gene - diseases interactions .
After that , Probabilistic Context - Free Grammars ( PCFGs ) ( Klein and Christopher 2003 ) is applied for sentence grammar parsing .
Based on the syntactic tree of each sentence , we extract paths between specific entities such as diseases or genes .
The network of all candidate genes and the disease is constituted by the interactions extracted from the sentences in the corpus .
Our main hypothesis in network analysis is that the most important and the most central genes in an interaction network are most likely to be related to the disease .
Last , network centrality metrics are used for calculating the importance of each gene .
The rest of this paper is organized as follows .
Section 2 surveys related work .
In Section 3 , we introduce the proposed approach of extracting interactions from literature .
Section 4 presents gene - disease interaction network analysis .
And then Section 5 presents and discusses the experimental results .
Lastly we conclude this paper and discuss future work in Section 6 .
2 Related Work Much effort is currently spent on extracting gene - disease associations ( Özgür et al .
Biomedical relation extraction techniques basically include two branches : interaction database based methods and text mining methods .
Interaction database based methods rely on the availability of interaction databases , such as OMIM , MINT ( Zanzoni et al .
2003 ), which predict interactions between entities using sequence , structural , or evolutionary information ( Krallinger , Leitner , and Valencia 2010 ).
Although these databases host a large collection of manually extracted interactions from the literature , manually curated databases require considerable effort and time with the rapid increasing of biomedical literature .
Since most biological facts are available in the free text of biomedical articles , the wealth of interaction information provided in biomedical articles motivated the implementation of text mining approaches to automatically extract biomedical relations .
Text mining approaches to gene - disease association extraction have shown an evolution from simple systems that rely solely on co - occurrence statistics ( Adamic et al .
2002 ; Al - Mubaid and Singh 2005 ) to complex systems utilizing natural language processing techniques and machine learning algorithms ( Freudenberg and Propping 2002 ; Glenisson et al .
Well - known tools for discovering gene - disease associations include DAVID ( Huang et al .
( Huang et al .
2011 ) and many others .
However , in many cases , since the existing annotations of disease - causative genes is far from complete ( McKusick 2007 ), and a gene set might only contain a short list of poorly annotated genes , existing approaches often fail to reveal the associations between gene sets and disease phenotypes ( Huang et al .
Network - based approaches ( Wuchty , Oltvai , and Barabâsi , 2003 ; Schwikowski et al .
2000 ; Chen et al .
2006 ) is performed by assessing how much genes interact together and are close to known disease genes in protein networks .
Relation extraction among genes is the fundamental step for gene - interaction network creation .
Recently , syntactic analysis has been considered for relation extraction , and different parsing grammars have been applied .
Temkin and Gilder ( 2003 ) used a full parser with a lexical analyzer and a context free grammar ( CFG ) to extract protein - protein interactions .
( 2005 )' s work , they proposed a protein - protein interaction extraction system based on head - driven phrase structure grammar ( HPSG ).
Although the pattern generation is complicated , the performance is not satisfactory .
In addition , dependency grammar is used frequently in this domain .
Erkan et al .
( 2007 ) proposed a semi - supervised classification for extracting protein interaction sentences using dependency parsing .
( 2007 ) defined some rules based on dependency parse tree for relation extraction .
The problem of those systems using dependency parse is that they cannot treat non - local dependencies , and thus rules acquired from the constructions are partial ( Yakushiji et al .
Differently , in this work , we apply sentence filtering based on topics and phrase structure parsing for relation extraction .
The extracted sentences potentially contain information about gene - diseases interactions .
Phrase structure grammars are based on the constituency relation , as opposed to the dependency relation associated with dependency grammars .
Phrase structure parsing is full parsing , which takes into account the full sentence structure .
In addition , many researches ( Aerts et al .
2005 ; Chen et al .
used an initial list of seed genes to build a disease - specific gene - interaction network , and thus they are biased in favor of the seed genes , consequently the results also depend on the pickup seed genes .
3 Extracting interactions from literature 3 . 1 The Corpus We used 44 , 064 articles from PubMed Central ( PMC ) Open Access which is a free full - text archive of biomedical and life sciences journal literature .
All articles were extracted by querying the keyword of " breast cancer ".
We applied a segmentation tool Splitta for segmenting articles into sentences which includes proper tokenization and models for high accuracy sentence boundary detection with reported error rates near 0 .
25 % coded by Gillick ( 2009 ).
A gene name dictionary was built from OMIM database .
The disease name dictionary was built based on Genetic Association Database ( GAD ) which is an archive of human genetic association studies of complex diseases and disorders .
3 . 2 Key sentences extraction We applied MaxEnt classifier with topic features for key sentences extraction .
The extracted sentences potentially contain information about genes and breast cancer interactions .
A Latent Dirichlet Allocation ( LDA ) model was used to infer topics of sentences .
Three most probable topics of each sentence were put into trained MaxEnt classifier as features for extracting sentences that potentially contain interaction relationship between genes and diseases .
3 . 2 . 1 Key words annotation We assume that each sentence indicating interactions should contain at least one gene and target disease name .
Key words are the words increasing possibility of sentence containing interaction relationships , such as genes and diseases .
As mentioned above , we built the gene name dictionary with data from OMIM database and disease name dictionary from Genetic Association Database ( GAD ).
All gene names and disease names were considered as key words .
3 . 2 . 2 Topic model based on Gibbs Sampling Latent Dirichlet Allocation ( LDA ) was applied based on Gibbs Sampling method in our system .
Compared with algorithm obtaining approximate maximum - likelihood estimates for topics - words distribution and the hyperparameters of the prior on documents - topics distribution given by Blei , Ng and Jordan ( 2002 ), Gibbs Sampling method doesn ' t need to explicitly represent the model parameters which effect on the final results ( Griffiths , 2002 ).
For a word w in a specific article , the possibility it belongs to topic j can be given by : where z . represents current topic , z_ represents all topics except for i , w represents all words in the article , wt represents current word and w_ represents all words except for w ..
Formula ( 1 ) could be represented as follow after derivation : where n (' j represents count of words belong to topic j except for current word .
n ( wi ) represents count of word wi belong to topic j in the article except for current one .
nw represents total of words in article di , while nW ;) represents count of words in document di not including the current one .
a and ß are hyperparameters that determine extent of smooth of this empirical distribution , and how heavily this distribution can be chosen to give the desired resolution in the resulting distribution .
w stands for count of words while t stands for count of topics .
3 . 2 . 3 Training of topic model We randomly selected sentences from 8000 documents in our corpus as training set and set number of topics K as 10 .
Topic that contains most words in gene name dictionary and disease name dictionary was treated as a key topic .
Then we manually assigned each word in gene name dictionary or disease name dictionary to key topic , and each word doesn ' t belong to the two dictionaries was assigned to the most probable topic of itself .
3 . 2 . 4 Prediction of key sentences The sentences containing interactions among genes or diseases were marked as ' Key ' and others were marked as ' None '.
A MaxEnt classifier was trained based on the topic distribution .
3 . 3 Extracting interactions from key sentences In order to extract interactions from sentences , we used phrase structure parsing which generates parse tree of a sentence that can be analyzed for relationships among words .
Stanford parser tool ( de Marneffe et al .
2006 ) is employed for sentence parsing .
Figure 1 shows an example of phrase structure parse tree .
We extracted interactions by depth - first search in the parse tree .
Each path between keyword nodes ( e . g .
gene or disease ) and the root node were collected .
A list of interaction verbs were compiled from VerbNet , which consists of 1048 verbs .
We captured interactions from the paths which contain an interaction verb .
http :// morphix - nlp . berlios . de / manual / node36 . html http : // nlp .
stanford . edu / software / stanford - dependencies .
shtml Figure 1 .
Part of the phrase structure parse tree of the sentence " AA , an inhibitor of p300 , can suppress AR and its target genes , which can induce cells cycle arrest and apoptosis of Lncap cells through AR signaling ."
For instance , two genes ' AA ' and ' AR ' could be extracted from sentence " AA , an inhibitor of p300 , can suppress AR and its target genes , which can induce cells cycle arrest and apoptosis of Lncap cells through AR signaling ".
The path from ' AA ' to ' AR ' in the syntactic tree is " NP ( AA ) -> NP -> NP -> S -> VP ( can ) -> VP ( suppress ) -> NP -> NP -> NP ( AR )", where ' suppress ( VP )' is an interaction verb .
Therefore , we consider there is a ' suppression ' interaction between ' AA ' and ' AR '.
4 Interaction network analysis The extracted interactions can be represented by an adjacency matrix , where A = 1 if there is an edge between node i and j , and if there is no edge between node i and j .
We establish disease - specific interaction network through searching for nodes within 3 distance unit from the target disease node .
To gain the most related gene of the target disease , Centrality approach is used for calculating correlation of each gene based on its weight in this specific disease network .
4 . 1 Degree centrality Degree centrality represents central tendency of each node in the network , the more direct connects it has , the more power it has in the network and so the more important it is .
The degree centrality CD ( v ) of node v is calculated as follows .
http :// verbs . colorado . edu /~ mpalmer / projects / verbnet . html 4 . 2 Betweenness centrality Betweenness centrality reflects the ability of a node taking control of other nodes ' communication and the capability of controlling resources in the network .
The more nodes that shortest paths pass through , the more communications of other nodes depend on it , and the more betweenness centrality the node has .
The betweenness centrality cb ( v ) of node v is calculated as follows : where ast is the total number of shortest paths from node s to t and Gst ( v ) is the number of paths that pass through v .
4 . 3 Closeness centrality Closeness centrality reflects the ability a node has of not being controlled by other nodes .
The closeness centrality of a node measures how close it is to other nodes in the whole network .
The smaller the total distance from a node to other nodes in the network , the less dependency the node has on nodes in the network , and thus the higher its centrality is .
The closeness centrality cc ( v ) of node v is calculated as follows .
where dG ( v , t ) represents distance from node v to node t .
4 . 4 Weighted centrality Formula ( 6 ) is applied to assigne weights for each measure of centrality equally : where cd represents the largest degree centrality of all nodes in the network , cbrepresents the largest betweenness centrality of the whole network and cc represents the largest closeness centrality among all nodes .
5 Results and Discussion As a common disease with high incidence , breast cancer gains much attention among researchers and has a rather large literature accumulation .
We used breast cancer as testing disease for system evaluation .
The corpus contains 3 , 209 , 385 sentences from 44 , 064 articles .
All articles were extracted from PMC with keyword of " breast cancer " ( search date : March 1 2013 ).
The gene name dictionary consists of 19 , 195 gene names searched from OMIM database while the disease dictionary consists of 5644 disease names from Genetic Association database ( GAD ).
5 . 1 Evaluation on key sentence extraction MaxEnt classifier is applied with topic features for key sentences extraction .
We randomly selected sentences from 8000 documents in our corpus as training set .
We set number of topics K as 10 .
The results of topics - words distribution predicted by Gibbs Sampling based topic model and topic correction are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : The results of topics - words distribution predicted by Gibbs Sampling based topic model and topic correction .
There are totally 1037 , 637 key sentences were extracted , and the extraction precision is 66 . 4 %.
5 . 2 Interaction network analysis 5 . 2 . 1 Degree centrality The breast cancer related gene - interaction network consists of 4636 distinct gene nodes and 19 , 972 interactions extracted among them .
Figure 2 illustrates degree centrality of the interaction network of breast cancer .
Different color and size indicate different degree centrality of each node .
The node in red with the largest degree centrality 1069 in the figure represents breast cancer .
This indicates that 1069 genes have direct interactions with breast cancer referred in all sentences .
Figure 2 .
Degree centrality of the gene - breast cancer interaction network .
Figure 3 shows the relationship between each degree centrality and its count of nodes .
Figure 3 .
The relationship between each degree centrality and its count of nodes .
As shown in Figure 3 , the node with maximum degree centrality 1069 is target disease while most of other nodes distribute from degree centrality of 1 to 10 which are considered as least related genes .
Table 2 lists part of ranks of all 1069 genes in the order of degree centrality .
Table 2 : Part of ranks of all 1069 genes in the order of degree centrality .
From Table 2 , we can find that BRCA1 and BRCA2 are known familial breast cancer genes which have gained authority validation .
Although their mutations are not common in sporadic breast cancer patients , they accounts for approximately 80 % to 90 % among all hereditary breast cancer .
TP53 is a kind of mutant gene with high penetrance which has also been verified association with breast cancer in genetics .
Moreover , ATM and AR are low frequency genes belong to specific loci , about 5 % to 10 % of breast cancer relate to at least one or more changes in the susceptibility genes mentioned above .
The result of CRC in contrast is more like some kind of institution ' s name : Cooperative Research Centre for Discovery of Genes for Common Human Diseases or the abbreviation of another disease : Colorectal Cancer ( CRC ).
There haven ' t been any evidence reveals direct correlation between CRC gene and breast cancer , we can only consider this as a misrecognition .
In addition to genes described above , other genes in the list have also been verified in authoritative sites or papers .
These results preliminarily verified the accuracy of our system .
5 . 2 . 2 Betweenness centrality Figure 4 illustrates betweenness centrality of the interaction network of breast cancer .
Color and size of each point reflect betweenness of the node , which indicate the ability to control other nodes in the network .
Nodes in green have the minimum betweenness centrality while the color of jade - green shows larger betweenness centrality .
Yellow nodes indicate betweenness centrality larger than jade - green and orange represents the largest .
Figure 5 shows relationship between each betweenness centrality and its count of neighbors .
Figure 5 .
Relationship between each betweenness centrality and its count of neighbors .
As shown in Figure 5 , the more adjacent nodes , the larger betweenness centrality .
The node with most neighbors of 1068 has maximum betweenness centrality of 0 . 35 while most nodes in the network have the count of neighbors from 0 to 200 with their betweenness centrality between 0 and 0 . 04 .
Table 3 lists part of ranks of all 1069 genes in the order of betweenness centrality .
Gene Betweenness Centrality Table 3 : Part of ranks of all 1069 genes in the order of betweenness centrality .
As can be seen from Table 3 , the rank of betweenness centrality is approximately matched with the rank of degree centrality .
TNF , EGFR and CRC are still the highest ranked genes while exchanged their order .
AR , androgen receptor , has a quick raise in the rank list .
It plays a vital role in the development and maintenance of male reproductive function and the cause of prostate cancer , but the effect and function on breast cancer of AR have not been clear until 2010 ( most of the literature published before 2010 ).
This result shows that the genes excavated by our system not only include genes in the known interaction network , but also reflect research tendency at present or in a certain period of time .
This also indicates the effectiveness of understanding scientific research tendency of our system .
Figure 4 .
Betweenness centrality of the gene - breast cancer interaction network As the definition of betweenness centrality , it reflects the ability to affect other nodes in the network .
If a gene interacts with another gene through an intermediate gene such as suppression or promotion , then the role played by this intermediate gene is decisive in this association .
The more intermediate roles played in associations , the greater the influence of the gene in the network .
Similarly , among all genes in the neighborhood of a specific gene , the greater the betweenness centrality of a gene , the more influence it has on that specific gene .
5 . 2 . 3 Closeness centrality Figure 6 illustrates closeness centrality of the interaction network of breast cancer .
Figure 6 .
Closeness centrality of the gene - breast cancer interaction network .
As can be seen from Figure 6 , red node at the center of the network represents breast cancer and neighboring orange nodes stand for direct related genes while peripheral nodes in green represents least related genes .
Figure 7 shows relationship between each closeness centrality and its count of neighbors .
Figure 7 .
Relationship between each closeness centrality and its count of neighbors .
Figure 7 shows the tendency of closeness centrality in the network while number of neighbors increases .
There is an approximate positive correlation between the count of neighbors and the closeness centrality of nodes but not so obvious compared with betweenness centrality or degree centrality .
For instance , the closeness centrality ranges from 0 . 14 to 0 . 34 for nodes with only one neighbor .
This tendency represents that closeness centrality reflect geographical centricity of each node more efficiently compared with degree centrality and betweenness centrality with less dependence on count of neighbors .
For example , if a node has only one edge to the center of the network , this node is bound to own large closeness centrality even though this edge is the only edge it has .
Meanwhile , another node has much more than one edge but far away from the center of the network , the closeness centrality of it can never be larger than the former one .
Table 4 lists part of ranks of all 1069 genes in the order of closeness centrality .
Table 4 shows that list ordered by closeness centrality is generally similar to list ordered by degree centrality and betweenness centrality .
TNF , EGFR and CRC are still highest ranking genes .
However , genes like STAT3 , MMP - 9 and MMP - 2 appear firstly in the list where STAT3 ranks 18 in degree centrality and 14 in betweenness centrality .
The details of STAT3 has been clearly described in Hsieh FC et al .
STAT3 full - called signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 , which is often detected in breast cancer tissues and its cell lines .
STAT3 has already been defined as an oncogene since its activated form in nude mice can produce malignant transformation of cultured cells and ultimately form tumors .
MMP - 9 and MMP - 2 are gelatinase , proteolytic enzymes involved in process of tumor invasion which is considered as a potential tumor marker in breast cancer .
Table 4 : Part of ranks of all 1069 genes in the order of closeness centrality .
All these three genes can be identified as direct related genes with breast cancer .
These associations which are not obvious in degree centrality and betweenness centrality indicating the effectiveness of closeness centrality in finding related gene to a specific disease .
5 . 3 Result Evaluation We enumerate 31 top genes ranked with weighted centrality considered as related to breast cancer due to our system .
Table 5 lists the gene or disease symbol , ID , and full name from OMIM database .
CRC COLORECTAL CANCER PHOSPHATE DEHYDROGENASE HR * 602302 HAIRLESS , MOUSE , HOMOLOG MYELOCYTOMATOSIS VIRAL ONCOGENE HOMOLOG MUTATED GENE RECEPTOR 4 Table 5 : The gene or disease symbol , ID , and full name from OMIM database .
The Genes and diseases in Table 5 inferred by degree , betweenness , closeness centralities and the relevance are listed in Table 6 .
Gene Degree Betweenness Closeness Relevance As results listed in Table 6 , all 31 top ranked genes and diseases have been checked relevance with breast cancer through NCBI database .
Terms marked as ' No ' are none - relevant to breast cancer and words marked as ' disease ' are related diseases to breast cancer .
The accuracy rate is 83 . 9 % for these top 31 genes and diseases and 74 . 2 % for these top 31 genes .
6 Conclusion Understanding the role of genetics in diseases is one of the major goals of the post - genome era .
We have proposed an automatic gene - disease association extraction approach based on text mining and network analysis .
Gene - breast cancer interaction network analysis demonstrated that degree , betweenness , and closeness centralities can estimate disease related genes effectively .
And closeness centrality is able to find disease related genes which are not obvious ranked by degree centrality and betweenness centrality .
In addition , this result showed that the genes excavated by our system not only include genes in the known interaction network , but also reflect research tendency at present or in a certain period of time .
This also indicates the effectiveness of understanding scientific research tendency of our system .
Table 6 : Genes inferred by degree , betweenness , and closeness centralities and the relevance .
Acknowledgment This research has been partially supported by the National High - Tech Research & Development Program of China 863 Program under Grant No .
Foundation of China under Grant No .
61203312 , National Program on Key Basic Research Project of China ( 973 Program ) under Grant No .
Foundation for the Returned Overseas Chinese Scholars , State Education Ministry , and Key Science and Technology Program of Anhui Province under Grant No .
